---
created: 2022-11-14T09:12:37 (UTC -08:00)
tags: []
source: https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2021.42
author: Michele Combs
---

# Book review | Indexer (The)

> ## Excerpt
> Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

---
Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

Volume 39, Number 4

**Index, a history of the: a bookish adventure**. Dennis Duncan. London: Allen Lane, 2021. 352 pp. ISBN 978 0 2413 7423 8 (hbk), £20.00; ISBN 978 0 2413 7424 5 (ebook), £9.99; ISBN 978 0 2415 4875 2 (audio download, 490 minutes), £13.00.

In the introduction to _Index, a history of the_, author Dennis Duncan lays out the goals of his book. The first is to ‘show how indexing responded to other shifts in the reading ecosystem … and how readers, and reading, changed at these points.’ The phrase ‘reading ecosystem’ is well chosen. Although we think of reading as the simple act of a person consuming (either visually or aurally) a text, what Duncan demonstrates is that reading has always taken place within a constellation of physical, social, and even emotional contexts that shape the experience in a myriad of ways. The medieval reading ecosystem contained quill pens, parchment, relatively few books, extremely low literacy rates, and the belief that reading the word of God was a form of prayer or meditation. By contrast, the reading ecosystem of the twenty-first century includes e-readers, smartphones, audiobooks, blogs, news feeds, and Tweets; socially, we have viral misinformation, the 24-hour news cycle, and unequal access to the information highway, while questions of media bias and freedom of the press certainly engender emotional reactions. Those of us of a certain age may lament these changes; so-called ‘digital natives,’ on the other hand, may delight in the ability to fact-check their friends with a few clicks or skim an article while waiting for a latte. Given this, the relevance of Duncan’s second goal is immediately obvious: to ‘show how the index often shouldered the blame for the anxieties of those invested in the modes of reading that went before.’ The ancient Egyptians’ fear that writing would cause the memory to atrophy, for example, is aptly represented today by headlines like ‘Is Google making us stupid?’

In this spirited, engaging, and witty ‘defence of the humble subject index’ (his third goal), Duncan traces its genealogy from its prerequisites (writing, the alphabet, the codex) through its various ancestors, constantly contextualizing it within changes in the manner and purpose of reading. One of these ancestors is the _distinctione_, a kind of combination concordance and subject index which listed common terms (for example ‘dragon’ or ‘abyss’) with all of their occurrences in Scripture. Since each occurrence of a word might carry a different meaning, and be used literally or metaphorically, each entry served as an outline for a multidimensional exploration – a ‘sermon in miniature.’ Duncan recounts one such sermon by Gilbert Foliot, a twelfth-century Bishop of London, focusing on the analogy of Christ as a stone:

> Foliot proceeds to run through a list of Biblical stones, from Psalm 118 (‘The stone which the builder refused is become the headstone of the corner’) and the stone that Jacob uses as a pillow … to the stone that smashes the false gods in Nebuchadnezzar’s dream … At each stage, Foliot pauses, drawing out the metaphorical implications of these different instances, using each to shine a light on his opening analogy, enriching it by viewing it from a variety of angles.

Peter of Cornwall, a young scholar in the audience, years later remembered how the sermon ‘ran backwards and forwards on its path from its starting point back to the same starting point.’ Duncan achieves much the same thing in his book, moving backwards and forwards in time, looking at reading and readers from various perspectives, digressing here and there to illuminate a point, but always returning to his central theme. Like Peter of Cornwall, I was held ‘in rapt attention.’

The book is wide-ranging and scholarly, yet also lively, whimsical and personal. Rather than taking a ‘macro’ approach and providing a dry recitation of facts and dates regarding the codex, the printing press, and the shifting politics of church and state, Duncan tells his story through a series of lively and varied individual vignettes. We are introduced to John of Gorze, for example, who read to himself ‘_in morem apis_,’ buzzing like a contented bee, and to John Oldmixon, an indexer ‘hard-up and languishing in obscurity.’ This personal approach extends even to the non-human: the index, we are told, is ‘the youngest sibling of a whole family of reading tools,’ while in a discussion of fonts Duncan offers ‘a generous Palatino, a parsimonious Times.’ Print indexes transferred to ebooks contain ‘spectral locators, gazing wanly after features of a terrain that is no longer visible.’ One gem, a quote from English essayist Leigh Hunt, anthropomorphizes the indexes to _The Spectator_ and other early periodicals as ‘jolly fellows bringing burgundy out of a cellar,’ transforming them from mere access tools to boon companions.

This sense of the personal and the intimate is carried through in the style of writing. Duncan frequently uses the present tense in his vignettes, giving them a pleasant sense of immediacy: ‘The year is 1230, and the friary \[of St Jacques\], like the Dominican Order itself, is barely a decade old,’ or ‘We have jumped forward, briefly, by a few centuries, arriving just in time to hear the Archbishop of Canterbury telling us to slow down.’ The reader is regularly invited to become an active participant in the narrative through the use of their imagination. We are enjoined to ‘Imagine …’ everything from the fourteenth-century Hugh of St Cher with ‘spectacles, spirited impossibly backwards across time, clamped to his nose’ and the page layouts for various types of books, to a ‘steampunk search engine’ and how William F. Buckley’s index-based prank on Norman Mailer might have played out at a party. We are even invited to imagine Duncan himself in a library on a cold, wet winter evening, ‘cosy, nestled, satisfied, hunting words.’

A through-line of the book is how our modern reading ecosystem, rather than being a jarring technical disruption, is in many ways a natural extension of what has come before. The Library of Alexandria is compared to ‘ancient Greek Big Data,’ for example, while Robert Grosseteste’s indexing symbols run ‘down the margins like streams of emoticons.’ One of the more striking connections is between the medieval manuscript and e-readers. Duncan shows us a copy of the _Polychronicon_, a fourteenth-century manuscript whose index is comprehensive but ‘broken’ because the monk who hand-copied the text failed to match the page breaks in the original, and copied the original index as-is without adjusting for the new pagination. The problem of the broken index was, Duncan tells us, a ‘specifically medieval one’ and was solved by the printing press, whose mechanical nature produces identical copies. Only a few pages later, however, Duncan points out that with the advent of e-readers and their reflowable text (i.e., users can change the font, font size, and margins at will), ‘the page, so reliable for so long, has gone off the rails again.’

With all its humor, the book is also thoughtful and well researched, with extensive endnotes. Duncan has clearly read widely and thought deeply, and the book’s informal tone does not lessen its quality. As Duncan points out midway through the book, ‘The concept of learning itself is an adaptable one, evolving in response to the technology of its time … scholarship, rather than being timeless and immutable, is shifting and contingent, and … the questions we ask as scholars have a lot to do with the tools at our disposal.’

With a book about indexes and indexing, no responsible reviewer could omit mention of the index itself, and this one is a true masterpiece. Created by Paula Clarke Bain – or rather Bain, Paula Clarke (aka ‘binaural cake pal’?) – it is chock-full of in-jokes, cleverness, wit, and humor, and is well worth reading all on its own. Not only is it an excellent index _qua_ index, but it also exemplifies, embodies, and illustrates many of the concepts touched on in the book. Verbal round-robins, for example, discussed in the context of Lewis Carroll, insert themselves subtly into the index here and there. More explicitly, Duncan devotes a chapter to the various ways in which indexes have been deployed to poke fun at and/or make partisan comments on or about others, particularly in English politics. One method was to use words and phrases taken directly from the text, but in the index ‘puckishly shin\[e\] a light on their latent preposterousness.’ The index entry for Donald Trump is a case in point: technically accurate, yet one suspects an underlying message:

> Trump, Donald
> 
> ancient paranoia, 233

My personal favorite, however, is the index entry that appears in the index only because the text _says_ it is in the index. On page 240, Duncan reviews the difference between letter-by-letter and word-by-word alphabetization, using for his example an excerpt ‘derived from the index of this book.’ The 14 entries run from ‘Newman, Cardinal (John Henry)’ and the _New York Times_ through ‘Oldmixon, John’ and _Old Possum’s book of practical cats_, and include ‘Newman, Paul.’ Turning to the index, we find this: ‘Newman, Paul, unexpected appearance by, 240’. It is a kind of chicken-and-egg problem: if he were not in the book, he would not be in the index, and yet if he were not in the index he would not be in the book.

Duncan is particularly good at delving into layers of meaning, as for example when he teases out the nuances of John Gay’s whimsical index to _Trivia, or, the art of walking the streets of London_, extrapolating from ‘Glasier, his Skill at Foot-Ball, p. 36’ a pointed commentary on tradesmen who find ways to generate employment for themselves (in this case by breaking windows, which they will then be hired to replace). Taking a similar approach with this book’s index yields an interesting possibility. As mentioned above, one of Duncan’s goals is to show how the index engendered anxiety in scholars who feared its effect on scholarship and reading. Throughout the book he returns to this theme and even devotes an entire chapter (‘The map is not the territory’) to an in-depth exploration. Yet, curiously, the index contains no main entry for ‘anxiety’ – nor fear, concern, caution, criticism, wariness, suspicion, or discomfort (though these do appear as occasional subs under other terms). Might Duncan and Bain be offering a subtle reassurance to the careful reader that, in this case at least, the map is _not_ the territory, and allaying fears that those who engage in the shortcut of ‘indexlearning’ will know just as much as someone who reads the entire book? If so, they may consider this reader amply satisfied.

## Note for North American readers

The US edition of _Index, a history of the_ will be published in February 2022 by W. W. Norton. ISBN 978 1 3240 0254 3 (hbk), $30.00.
