---
created: 2022-11-14T09:19:28 (UTC -08:00)
tags: []
source: https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2020.33
author: Alberto Cevolini
---

# Book review | Indexer (The)

> ## Excerpt
> Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

---
Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

Volume 38, Number 3

**Making archives in early modern Europe: proof, information, and political record-keeping, 1400–1700**. Randolph C. Head. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2019. 348 pp. ISBN 9781108462525 (hbk), £90.00; ISBN 9781108473781 (pbk), £24.99; ASIN B07S9F73G8 (Kindle), £20.00.

The so-called ‘archival turn’ in human sciences has produced some excellent studies in recent years and increased, as Randolph C. Head says at the beginning of his book, ‘awareness of archives’ complexities among scholars in multiple disciplines’ (p. 4). Most of these studies have focused on the relationship between the rise of the modern filing cabinet and the development of modern political systems; that is, between record-management systems and information-based collective decision-making systems commonly labelled the ‘rise of the early modern state’. The historical hypothesis underlying these studies is that the development of a mass bureaucratic state was not understandable without a comprehensive understanding of the early modern machinery of knowledge management (p. 269). Head’s book offers a valuable contribution to this hypothesis and combines a theoretical background with a large number of empirical case studies, from the late medieval Chancellery in Lisbon (1460–1560) to the early modern information management system of Innsbruck (1490–1530), from early modern inventories in Habsburg Austria and Würzburg to Swiss urban records (1500–1700).

The period investigated by Head (_c._1400–1700) is historically significant for at least two reasons. First of all, it represents a long phase of evolutionary transition which gradually leads to the dismantling of the medieval order based on the differentiation of social ranks, and to the establishing of a modern order based on the functional differentiation of social subsystems. Second, in this period a new medium – the printing press – was invented which considerably changed how society self-organizes the access to information: that is, how society manages its social memory. In both cases, it can be argued that the process observed is of socio-evolutionary nature. Historical research, however, plays a crucial role in providing evidences that can underpin (but also question) sociological theory.

From this particular standpoint, Head’s research offers extremely interesting material for further investigation. Head focuses on the development of record-keeping systems, from the Roman _tabularium_, where records of public and private agreements were preserved in case they were required to be provided as evidence before a court (pp. 46 ff.), to late medieval and early modern repositories and, eventually, to early modern public archives as sociopolitical institutions for managing information. His primary concern, however, is about methods devised to access information. In this respect, the matter concerns the use of ‘metadata’ – that is, information about information – as finding aids (p. 54). This is where, in my opinion, Head’s study provides the most exciting results for scholars interested in indexing systems.

Evolution always works with structures and functions. Function is, simultaneously, an empirical issue and an analytical tool for theory; that is, a viewpoint from which one can compare different structures and regard them as equivalent with respect to the problem they address. This immediately raises the question of the conditions under which one structure is preferred to another structure which is functionally equivalent. In the case of archives, the function concerned is not so much the preservation of written documents – which, however, is a necessary condition – but rather the prompt and efficient access to information potentially contained in documents: what Head rightly defines as the functional imperative of ‘ease of finding’ (p. 55) and medieval and early modern scholars usually called _facilitas inveniendi_ (p. 61). Head outlines considerable development between 1400 and 1700 in early modern Europe that moves from lists to space and from space to indexing systems. The engine of this development is complexity (pp. 137 ff., 186 ff.). As long as there was a small number of documents to be preserved and their nature was rather homogeneous, it sufficed to make an inventory of items to be found in the archive. The archive functioned, then, as a storing place (the German term is _Behälter_) to save documents from dispersion and destruction. However, when the number quantity of documents became bigger and their nature more heterogeneous, it became necessary to devise a more reliable system to locate records. Early modern archivists resorted to an ‘ideal-topological classification’: material was so organized in the space of archives as to mirror social hierarchies or territorial and domainal units. The mirroring effect was, in fact, a very useful memory aid: social organization was topographically mirrored in archival containers and the latter could, in turn, be mirrored in a book-form guide to the repository. In this way, ‘placing each document in a space that corresponded to a known political category was sufficient to make it locatable’ (p. 193).

With increasing complexity in record-keeping and information-retrieval needs, space as a finding aid became dysfunctional (p. 211). This led to some crucial advancements in archival techniques in the mid-seventeenth century. The logic of the archive shifted, in short, from a spatial to a taxonomical (subject-indexing-based) logic. As a consequence, it was possible not only to make the archive more efficient but also to reorganize the access to information in order to meet the political–administrative requirements of modern society. This is strikingly consistent with socio-evolutionary theory. When complexity increases, in fact, evolution favours, among functional equivalents, that which is capable of maintaining adaptation. Indexing systems were developed, in this respect, not so much to locate documents but to retrieve information. This function implied a separation of retrieval rules from concrete storage, and a higher formal abstraction in coding information. After the 1650s, thus, according to Head, the index displaced the map and became a crucial finding tool in archives ultimately conceived of as secondary memory systems (the German term is _Zweitgedächtnis_). In this respect, one could say that indexing systems represent a form of self-adaptation of social memory which was encouraged by drastic socio-structural and media changes in a long period between the fifteenth and seventeenth centuries. Head’s research offers plenty of evidence to test this hypothesis and encourage further interdisciplinary research.
