---
created: 2022-11-14T09:16:57 (UTC -08:00)
tags: []
source: https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2020.43
author: Sherrey Quinn
---

# Book review | Indexer (The)

> ## Excerpt
> Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

---
Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

Volume 38, Number 4

**Indexing biographies & other stories of human lives, 4****th edn**. Hazel K. Bell. Liverpool: Liverpool University Press, 2020. 150 pp. ISBN 978 1 789 62162 4 (pbk), 978 1 789 62745 9 (ebook), £14.95.

The fourth edition of Hazel Bell’s _Indexing biographies & other stories of human lives_, published this year by Liverpool University Press, comes 28 years after the first edition, published in 1992. The second and third editions were published in 1998 and 2004 respectively. The size and format of the editions have remained roughly the same – approximately 148 mm × 212 mm, although the fourth edition has slightly wider margins. The total number of pages, including front- and end-matter, has increased from 42 pages (first), 65 (second) and 106 (third) to 141 (fourth).

The fourth edition can also now be purchased as an ebook. Online you can add highlights, bookmarks, citations and notes (all ordered by page number), as well as copy and paste from the text and search the contents. Neither the table of contents nor the index have embedded links, although the overview mode shows all the printed pages, at small size, to allow one to quickly jump to any page in the book. You can also download the book in a PDF format.

## Reviews of previous editions

Alan Walker’s review, ‘What’s special about biographical indexing?’, compared the first and second editions of Bell’s publication, indicating, amongst other commentary, that the latter expanded on and updated the previous text, although not what these changes were. This review draws on differences with previous editions, most notably the third edition. But for those readers not familiar with the previous editions, the major topics with arguments both pro and con, and the headaches that are faced when indexing biographical texts, are covered. As with previous editions, arguments, opinions and themes within the topic of each chapter are meticulously laid out, backed up with numerous examples. The lengthiest chapters are devoted to discussion about narrative texts, great indexes, main characters, presentation and layout and indexing fiction.

## Front-matter

While earlier editions include a foreword and acknowledgements, the fourth edition only includes acknowledgements. Bell has published many other books about indexing, and on other topics,<sup><a href="https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2020.43#fn1" role="doc-noteref" id="body-ref-fn1">1</a></sup> but has remained remarkably loyal to this particular subject. Lacking from all editions is a preface from the author originally explaining the impetus for publication in this area of indexing and, later, highlighting those areas of the text that have changed over the years. An author’s preface to this edition after the 16-year gap since the third edition would really have been helpful, particularly to highlight changes in her text and thinking and to indicate where previous examples and citations have been updated with ideas from newer authors and indexers.

## Table of contents

In general, the chapters have the same names and subsections as the previous edition but are renumbered due to the movement of ‘Fiction’ from Chapter 2 to Chapter 14. There is also a new chapter, ‘The user’, as well as new subsections under previous chapters.

Chapters deleted from this edition are ‘Softly, softly’, a coda or concluding chapter re-emphasizing that biography is seen as a genre of indexing rather than as a subject specialism, and that there are no hard and fast rules when indexing people’s lives. Material from this chapter in the third edition has been redistributed (and updated), with some paragraphs moved to Chapter 1 and others moved to the ‘Award winners’ section of Chapter 2, ‘The great and good’. The previous chapter on ‘Printed reference works’ and the Appendix, ‘Using the Internet’, have also been deleted (discussed further below).

## Chapters

The opening chapter, ‘Narrative texts and stories of lives’, contains the same sections as the previous edition, with an additional sub-subsection, ‘Political memoirs’, under ‘Autobiography’. Several quotes in the third edition have been replaced by new quotes from different authors. As previously, biographies, autobiographies, histories, diaries and letters are put forward as ‘soft’ texts, but Bell now distinguishes ‘soft’ texts from ‘documentary’ texts, which she previously termed ‘dry’ texts – reflecting the difference ‘between information (dry) and knowledge (soft)’, as quoted in [Abel (1991)](https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2020.43#core-R1), also referenced in the previous edition. Narrative texts – those dealing with human lives, continuing stories with ongoing development of characters and themes – are further differentiated from the ‘discrete, self-contained units’ that make up documentary texts. Accompanying this distinction is the individual, subjective approach needed to be taken by indexers. Such a subjective interpretation is echoed throughout the book – whether assigning terms or descriptors, subheadings, avoiding (or not) bias, the effect on decisions about layout, and indexing fiction. Adding to the subjective nature of indexing biography is the challenge of dealing with sensitive content, privacy, past atrocities, hostage experiences and love letters, and whether to reinforce these in the index. Bell regards histories as narrative texts with biographical matter occurring within them. Advantages, compared to indexing biographies, are that much of the content – events, people – will be well known and established terms will be easily understood as main entries and subheadings.

The subsection on ‘Biography’ includes additional introductory and ending material. The former introduces a definition of a biography index; the latter highlights the length of many biographies and therefore the importance and value of an index to find facts not easily discovered, or overlooked due to ‘skippage’ by the reader of such ‘doorstep’ tomes. Again, Bell highlights the differences between the biography genre and subject specialism, lamenting, with anecdotes, the lack of respect sometimes afforded to biography indexers. Included in the category of autobiography are memoirs, journals and diaries.

Bell opines that indexers of autobiographies may have an easier task vis-à-vis the main character as there may be less information about the actual subject and more emphasis on events observed by the subject than on themselves. In this edition, there is a new subsection on ‘Political memoirs’, with amusing anecdotes concerning impartiality and the origin of the term ‘Washington read’. Diaries present peculiar difficulties for the indexer as they are not designed as narrative wholes, serve a variety of purposes, are frequently more casual in tone, and may have frequent minor mentions resulting in strings of page references. The examples of indexes to diaries included by Bell also illustrate the need for extensive glosses.

Bell points out that letters are also written in discrete units, not narrative form, although sequences of letters may acquire a sense of continuity. She highlights the fact that they exist in real time and can be either sources drawn upon by the biographer or as literary works themselves, and again, like diaries, the indexer will be confronted by frequent minor references. The section on ‘Letters’ contains new information covering the problems of name changes and titles bestowed at different times. It also contains analysis of two award-winning indexes to collections of letters, adding to praise of indexes to letters which also appeared in the previous edition.

Chapter 2, ‘The great and good’, covering ‘masterpieces of the indexing of life stories’, has been expanded and updated to include more titles, more information about the indexers themselves and more examples of award-winning indexes – the Wheatley Medal (Society of Indexers – discontinued after 2012), the H. W. Wilson Company Award (American Society for Indexing), the ANZSI Medal and the Ewart– Daveluy Award (Indexing Society of Canada/Société canadienne d’indexation). New material in this chapter covers why indexes to narrative stories achieve little attention from award judges, including a missive from Bell herself in the year 2000 regarding the Wheatley criterion of ‘avoidance of strings of undifferentiated page references’. Included again is the section ‘Other good’ uns’ – indexes and indexers, though lacking in awards, that have achieved high praise.

Chapter 3, ‘First read your book’, comes closest to what could be described as a ‘how-to’ guide to biographical indexing. This chapter is a step-by-step approach, from a preliminary reading of the whole of the text and all of its parts (if possible!) to comprehend the subject matter and density of the text to gain perspective, through to analysis, annotation of characters and events and coverage (i.e. prologues/forewords, illustrations, bibliography, maps and appendices). Typographical differentiation for illustrations is also mentioned here and expanded in the chapter on ‘Presentation and layout’.

Chapter 4, ‘Naming names’, expands on the use of glosses (for relationships or members of family generations with the same name) and when they should be provided. Alternative names (through marriage or divorce, pseudonyms, nicknames, stage names, aliases), peerage/titles (gained later in the content), hyphenated names and so on pose real problems for consistency and cross-referencing across the index. The use of preliminary notes referring to the treatment of names is discussed, as is the problem of people incompletely named in the text. Somewhat controversial may be the suggestion of undertaking research (these days by Internet searching) to provide clarification not present in the text. Particularly with names, unnoticed errors and inconsistencies can be passed on by the indexer to the author or editor.

Chapter 5, ‘Coming to terms: subheadings’, discusses where the indexer of soft narrative texts faces great challenges and ‘must employ a flexible range of vocabulary to meet the authors’ individual perception and expression’. Terms used in main headings can certainly be chosen directly from the text, but subheadings may be chosen on the basis of either generalized terms (e.g. character, childhood, education, career, social life, etc.) or assigned on the basis of subjective interpretation of concepts and ideas in the text, where – quoting from Christopher Phipps – we should ‘allow ourselves something of the flair and enjoyment of creative writing’. Bell then lists a number of qualities to aim for in choosing subheadings, again highlighting differences between narrative and documentary indexes, and finally compares two different indexes to the different publications of Pepys’s diary to underline that there can be no accepted ‘correct’ or standardized version for subheadings in biographies. Bell believes there is much virtue in the use of prepositions in soft indexing and provides a defence of the use of ‘and’, which, while vague, also steers clear of any bias by its neutrality.

Bias and the use of the author’s own words or not spills over into Chapter 6, ‘The perils of partiality’, where the indexer can choose to deliberately reinforce the attitude of the author, or choose more anodyne, neutral language, simply pointing the reader to the text. Bell cites a number of amusing tales of hostility, partisanship and, in one case, ‘sheer, over-the-top attack’ in indexes, as well as the problem of the opposite, which is whether indexers should indulge in euphemism to counter this. Limitations of language are discussed in terms of describing relationships – consider the number of terms for cohabiting, for example. Similarly, judgement can be implied in political contexts, such as street protest or riot, refugee or illegal immigrant, and (we might add) where feminists decry the use of loaded wording to describe women. Against constraints of standardization of language terms, Bell opts for subtlety and differentiation, allowing the indexer to deploy the widest, most sensitive vocabulary. She finishes this chapter with a splendid quote from Orwell’s _Nineteen eighty-four_ on the insidious, narrowing aim of ‘Newspeak’. This chapter about partiality/impartiality probably resonates more strongly today than previously, in light of political correctness of language, culture clash, culture appropriation, the Black Lives Matter movement, and identity politics.

Order, editing and grouping are covered across three chapters: Chapter 7, ‘All in order: a proper arrangement’; Chapter 8, ‘Theme by theme’; and Chapter 12, ‘Presentation and layout’. These chapters offer comment on the more practical aspects of biography indexing, drawing out distinctions between alphabetization of entries in either letter-by-letter or word-by-word order. There is also a lengthy discussion about whether to sort subheadings alphabetically, by page number or chronologically, outlining the advantages and disadvantages of each method. Again, arguments are offered for strict chronological sequencing or a theme-by-theme approach, using paragraphed subheadings. This latter topic gives rise to numerous examples (three and a half pages, in fact) of useful paragraph subheadings, in caps, to divide entries for the main character and to trace themes, the order of which can be varied within these paragraph either alphabetically or chronologically. Layout covers the use of prefatory notes and typographical devices – bold, italics, full capitals, small capitals, even the underlining of some page locators. And, that knottiest of questions, whether to use indented or run-on style, is also covered. Use of the latter, in turn, gives rise to problems for sub-subheadings.

Chapter 9, ‘Mighty main characters’, is given extensive treatment, ranging from the idea that the metatopic can be left out of the index as a main heading while fully treating all other characters and events, and arguments for and against lengthy entries under the main character. Again, the issue of indented or run-on style is discussed, as well as chronological and alphabetical order and, indeed, a mixture of both styles in the index is outlined. Unusual also is the idea of leaving line spaces in the listings under the main character, as one does between alphabetical sections of the index. Main characters who produce literary or musical works leave the indexer with the choice of either listing these under the main subject, or dispersing them throughout the index, cross-referenced from the subject. Not discussed is a third option – that of a separate index of such works, which is reasonably common. Entries for characters in works of fiction are discussed here, as are letters written by the main subject. Further discussion on indexing fictional characters in novels is made under a later chapter on ‘Fiction’, including whether and how to differentiate fictional characters from ‘live’ people.

Chapter 11 was titled ‘Mentioning strings’ in the third edition but is now ‘Just mentioning’ and tackles the question whether to index minor mentions in the text – those that may be too trivial for subheadings but may therefore give rise to strings of undifferentiated page numbers – subject headings ‘attended by massed ranks of page-references’. Bell gives a spirited defence of such strings of locators (hurrah!), also outlining possible strategies for dealing with these – ‘_mentioned_’, ‘_passim_’, ‘also’, brackets – but opines against these, as well as arithmetical principles such as reducing 12 page numbers to a random selection of five, or using false spans. She provides eloquent examples of arguments supporting minor mentions and the necessity for strings.

Chapter 13, ‘The user’, is a new and welcome chapter in this edition, covering likely readers of biographies and their indexes – genealogists, historians, students and researchers of family histories. Readers of biographies also include those eager to find their names mentioned in the index, particularly in political memoirs – the ‘Washington read’, as mentioned above. Bell could have added leisure readers to the list of readers and index users – biographies in public-library collections are extremely popular.

Chapter 14, ‘Fiction’, has been expanded to double its size from the third edition and discusses whether fiction should be indexed. ‘The indexer as literary critic’ is a new section in this chapter, expanded from the brief paragraph in the previous version. Bell has retained the subsection dealing with her indexes to the novels of A. S. Byatt and the unique problems posed by the ‘subtlety and complexity of the literary form’. The section ‘Novels published with indexes’ has additional material and is considerably longer than previously, covering cumulative indexes to the novelist’s _oeuvre_, the novelist as indexer, indexes added years after publication, indexes on websites, and indexes used to add authenticity to fictional memoirs as well as for a comedic touch. This section provides numerous examples across historic as well as current fiction.

Bell has chosen to omit from this fourth edition the previous chapter on ‘Printed reference works’. This chapter had covered the use of general biographical dictionaries, specialist biographical dictionaries, how to look up living persons, obituaries, peerage and aristocracy, names, languages and reference book recommendations from indexers. Omitted also is the previous Appendix: ‘Using the Internet’ by Noeline Bridge. No doubt, since the time of the third edition, 16 years ago, indexers are much more likely to be familiar with research on the Internet and other online tools for discovering information. Still, it is a pity that such valuable resource information from both deleted sections could not have been combined to reveal which publications and other resource materials are now available online.

## Referencing

‘Articles on \[topic\] that have appeared in _The Indexer_’ are lists that have been retained and updated at the end of many chapters and subsections within chapters. Some older citations have been omitted; newer ones published since 2004 have been added. Some additional reference material is also cited in these lists. Volume, issue and page-number information from _The Indexer_ is given, but dates of the issues, which were included in the third edition, have annoyingly been omitted. The citations are helpfully arranged in volume order, though, from earliest to latest, unlike the previous edition where the order of listing is less obvious in some chapters. Page numbers for these lists are explicitly referenced in the index, under the relevant topic, as they were in the previous edition. These resource lists are very valuable, located as they are at the end of a chapter or subsection, and specifically targeted at the subject matter of the chapter.

## End-matter

References in the third edition took up five pages; the fourth edition has seven pages. The most recent publication date is 2019. Since the second edition, Bell has eschewed numbering each reference in the text, then listing these in number order in the full References and Notes section. Instead, the formal References list is now ordered by author name. This allows the user to see all authors referred to on several occasions throughout the text, referenced by the author’s name and with year of publication mentioned in parentheses after the quote.

The index to the third edition comprised six pages; the fourth edition has twelve and a half pages, although the lines are more widely spaced than in the third edition. The index is clearly set out, indented, and easy to read. However, it does have some disappointing inconsistencies. Cross-references from synonymous terms commonly used by indexers are sparse. For example, the index has an entry for ‘minor mentions’ but there is no cross-reference from ‘passing mentions’, nor from ‘undifferentiated page numbers/locators’ to ‘strings’, nor from common names of awards to their formal names. There is no entry at ‘page numbers/page references’ or ‘locators’ – it would have been useful to have cross-references to indicate the headings where relevant discussions are indexed – such as those on using bold and italic, undifferentiated references, false spans and, in one mention, ‘an index entry is not a potted biography, and page numbers, when all is said and done, are its _raison d’être_’. There is inconsistent treatment of indexers who have won awards in the index. Some winners have subheadings for the relevant award under their names, others don’t. Nor is there any list of award-winning indexes by title, although some years of some awards mentioned are listed under the name of the award. Double-posting is inconsistent – sometimes complete, sometimes not. Sometimes page references/subheadings are missing. ‘Indented style’ has four subheadings listing the biographies and a diary with page references where this has been used. The run-on-style entry has no such subheadings and is missing page references for these indexes mentioned in other sections. The entry for the ANZSI Medal is also missing a reference, and is incorrectly referenced as ‘ANZI Medal’ wherever it is mentioned in the index, although it is correct in the text. Absent overall are the titles of all the biographies and so on mentioned throughout the text. Yes, the subjects of biographies are listed with either the term ‘biography’, ‘autobiography’, ‘memoir’, ‘letters’ or ‘diary’ entered next to or under their names, but not the titles of these books. It would have been interesting and useful to see these titles either listed in the index, together with the year of publication, or listed as a separate appendix. This would have given Bell’s book a different overview and perspective and added to the breadth of her commentary, showing both the historical and newer indexes analysed. And indexers love to browse! And are encouraged to learn by studying exemplars. There is no doubt that restrictions on the number of pages allowed for the publication, as well as the small format, constraining space in the two-column layout and number of index entries per page, were factors negating a more complete index. However, there is a full half-page blank at the end of the index, which could have allowed some omissions to have been rectified.

## Summary

_Indexing biographies & other stories of human lives_ is not a beginners’ guide to biography indexing and assumes a readership of experienced indexers who will understand and have had to grapple with these issues. It is an easy read, not because it lacks depth or insight but because it is leavened with humour and amusing anecdotes to lighten the ideas and concepts discussed. It provides a comprehensive and broad scope of the approach to biography indexing, marshalling ideas, opinion and argument and calling on the voices of authors and indexers alike, as well as other commentators on the art of indexing biography and other narrative texts. Arguments are laid out meticulously and logically, with numerous examples to highlight each position. The text is never proscriptive, although there are some areas where Bell does indicate her strong preferences. The index may have shortcomings but overall this does not detract from the book’s practical value. The book teases out the thorny problems and choices facing indexers, which, while not only confined to indexing biography, are particularly important when facing a narrative text. While books outlining many of the practical aspects of indexing are important, it is also really welcome that Bell’s book spans the history of biography indexing, from early commentary to current preferences and practices. Most of all it is an excellent and timely historical record of the great and the mighty icons of indexing and their lasting contribution, as well as more recent thoughts and ideas about our evolving profession. In summary, this book is a witty, entertaining and interesting journey and is highly recommended for professional indexers.

## Footnote

## References

Abel, R. (1991) ‘Books that are not being written’, _LOGOS_ 2(3), 164–7.

Walker, A. (2000) ‘What’s special about biographical indexing?’, _ANZSI Newsletter_ 24(10), 92–4.
