---
created: 2022-11-14T09:14:19 (UTC -08:00)
tags: []
source: https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2021.33
author: Hazel K. Bell
---

# The Indexer forty years ago (October 1981) | Indexer (The)

> ## Excerpt
> Hazel K. Bell, editor of The Indexer from 1978 to 1995, reflects on the content of the journal 40 years ago. In this issue, she travels back to October 1981, a time when indexers were deeply concer...

---
Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

Volume 39, Number 3

## Abstract

Hazel K. Bell, editor of _The Indexer_ from 1978 to 1995, reflects on the content of the journal 40 years ago. In this issue, she travels back to October 1981, a time when indexers were deeply concerned about the introduction of the computer. Hazel will continue this feature in future issues of the journal. If you would like to look further back in time, we recommend reading the regular feature that ran from 1991 to 2008 – ‘_The Indexer_ thirty years ago’ – which covered issues of the journal between 1961 and 1978.

_The Indexer_ issue of October 1981 (**12**(4)) had 64 pages.<sup><a href="https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2021.33#fn1" role="doc-noteref" id="body-ref-fn1">1</a></sup> It showed much concern with the coming of the computer, which was not yet assumed to be the normal instrument of indexers’ work. The guest editorial by John Gordon, indefatigable secretary of the Society of Indexers (SI), had a heading quoted from _The Times_: ‘Beware – computer at work’. This reported much unfavourable publicity in the US, purporting to show computers to be ‘neither labour-saving nor cost-effective’. However, Gordon avers, ‘The fault lies not in our computers but in ourselves. It is we (human beings) who design them, program them,’ leading to the conclusion, ‘That is why the SI has a Technology Working Party … Our members will be protected both against “cowboy” salesmen and being made redundant by the swift advances of technology’.

Nevertheless, SI president Robert Collison’s article, ‘The future of indexes and indexing’, the text of a talk given to the Society in May 1981, while boasting remarkable advances in indexing (citing in particular the growth of the international societies of indexers), mentions computers only in the final four of his 13 paragraphs. His chief concerns were the elimination of _see_ and _see also_ cross-references in indexes (to be replaced by ‘each entry send\[ing\] the reader _direct_ to the item indexed’); the font and size of type used for indexes; the provision of indexes to fiction; the compilation of ‘a Thesaurus for the specific use of indexers’, with supplementary thesauri covering various subject fields as well as national thesauri; and the distribution of indexing manuals for giant continuing indexes (e.g. encyclopedic) to SI members. He suggested that this would enable ‘an international effort to analyse what lies hidden in the great university and national libraries’.

Despite the scepticism about computerization, this issue of _The Indexer_ did include several articles describing the use of particular computer systems for particular tasks. Jay M. Pasachoff and Nancy P. Kutner in ‘Computer assistance in indexing with \*INDEX’ assured us that, ‘Computer programs already exist that can greatly simplify the task of indexing’. They explained further:

> After making out individual entries and categories by typing them into a computer terminal, we assembled and alphabetized the entries and subentries for \[two science books\] using the program \*INDEX on the MTS (Michigan Terminal System) operating the IBM 370/3033 computer … Typing was done on a remote video terminal, linked to the computer by dialling on an ordinary telephone line.’

After a column of detailed explanation they claimed, ‘One major advantage of computer indexing is that there are no boxes of cards to be dropped.’

Michael G. Farringdon wrote of ‘The preparation of a computer-generated concordance’. To quote: ‘This involved me in the choice and comparison of the most suitable computer languages for working on natural-language data-bases’. Under the heading ‘Future progress’ he observes, ‘Whilst computer punched cards are still used extensively as a medium on which to transcribe texts, the use of computer terminals to enter the text directly onto a computer’s disk filestore is increasing.’ By contrast, George H. Klumpner considered the ‘Disadvantages of computer-generated concordances’, which, he stated, ‘are now prepared with computers. Computers can be programmed to alphabetize, count, and segregate, but they cannot be programmed to think … Their harvest yields more chaff than grain’. He went on to point out that, ‘One unfortunate consequence of the alphabetical arrangement of information under each key word is that, when several lines derive from the same page of text, these lines are scattered rather than grouped. Another unfortunate consequence is that chronological relationships between the statements are obscured’. More enthusiastically, Roberta Palen wrote of ‘Computer-aid for philatelic indexing’ using the WYLBUR/370 system, ‘a compiler programmed for use within a computer’, which ‘can manipulate various kinds of text, providing on-line editing capabilities with English-like command vocabulary and fast response’.

Several articles focused on the indexing of particular subjects, including almost ten pages from Cherry Lavell on ‘Problems of archaeological indexing’. She deemed this ‘a highly complex subject covering a very wide range of academic disciplines . developing fast’, giving consideration to its users, typography, terminology, ethnographic parallels, subentry order, taxonomy, specificity, geographical entries and cumulating indexes.

Among the shorter articles, Vivien Wilson wrote of compiling ‘An ordinary of arms’ – a book containing all the coats of arms assigned during a 70-year period – explaining in detail the mechanics of the process, which even in the 1980s must have seemed like something from an earlier age. She ‘typed the material … direct onto sheets of A4 paper, basically classified each entry, tore the sheets into the strips \[slips of paper 2" wide\] and filed them under basic headings’. The hardware involved included a twinlock punch specially marked, and garden wire, which ‘enabled the slips (over six thousand to a set) to be secured in Her Majesty’s Stationery Office files’. And attention was also paid to historical indexing. Hans H. Wellisch (of blessed memory) quoted at length ‘From the 17th century: a German instruction in indexing’: a compendium of mathematical and scientific problems by Georg Philip Harssdorffer. He also referred to instructions given by Conrad Gessner in his sixteenth-century _Bibliotheca universalis_, ‘How to make an index’.

Two articles referred to training for indexing. John Gordon, again, reviewed SI’s contribution to this so far: the correspondence course devised by SI members and published by the Rapid Results College in 1981; the supervision scheme established by the Working Party on Training; methods of assessing applications for admission to the Register; and, returning to the theme of his guest editorial, a Working Party on Technology ‘examining the possibility of providing facilities for interested members to gain practical experience of using word processors and microcomputers’. K. G. B. Bakewell (then SI chairman) contributed over five pages on ‘Teaching book and periodical indexing at Liverpool’, where the School of Librarianship and Information Studies at the polytechnic ran two courses, including Organization of Knowledge.

On other topics, Anne Ramsay, in ‘Indexing and the Common Market’, complained that ‘inadequate indexing constitutes a serious impediment to the effective use of Community publications’. The Library Association’s Joint Working Party had compiled a report aiming to resolve these difficulties, and again we see the role of computers being highlighted. The work was made possible ‘by using Celex, a computerized documentation system for current European Communities law, which should be available in English via EURONET by 1982.’ In complete contrast, Ernest Rubinstein in ‘Saints and indexers’ regarded indexers as accompanists, and accompanists as saints, and considered how the ‘eight indispensable qualities’ of saintliness apply to indexers.

_The Indexer_ at that time also ran several series and reviews. Two instalments appeared in October 1981: in ‘Indexes past’, extracts from Thomas de Quincey’s _Collected writings_, and in ‘Indexers in fiction’, extracts from Vladimir Nabokov’s _Pale fire._ ‘Indexes reviewed’, edited by Norman Hillyer, comprised three pages of ‘Indexes praised’, one column of ‘Two cheers!’, three columns of ‘Indexes censured’, two pages of ‘Indexes omitted’, and a ‘Tailpiece’ about _Whitaker’s almanack._ Sixteen books were reviewed, many relating to the wider field of librarianship and information science, but several also demonstrated the increasing interest in the application of digital technology, including _The current use of word processors by British publishers_ and _Owning your home computer_; another twelve books were listed under the heading, ‘Publications received and publications noted’.

Other items in this issue included news, letters and smaller miscellaneous items. Only 12 indexes had been submitted for the Wheatley Medal for 1980: ‘a regrettable decrease’, according to the chairman of the Joint Selection Panel. The medal was awarded to Laurie J. Taylor for compilation of the index to _A librarian’s handbook: volume 2._ There were eight ‘Letters to the editor’, covering the topics of alphabetization of prepositions (two letters), the term ‘indexing’ in encyclopedias, indexing compared to copy-editing, late payment of invoices and whether to type indexes or send bundles of slips to the printer to typeset (three letters, responding to reports on a symposium on Indexers at Work). According to Congreve Banwell, typing the index was ‘an added expense and wasteful of time’, and although A. R. Hewitt agreed that it ‘gives an overview of the whole index’, he had found that ‘printers are willing to set mammoth indexes from slips’. For indexers today, who are used to inputting index entries directly into their software, this discussion smacks of another age, but it is a period that older readers will remember, though probably not with fondness.

This issue also included 25 ‘fillers’– that is, items of a column or less, set in the blank spaces at the ends of articles. These were a feature of _The Indexer_ for many years, so that flicking through any issue revealed very little white space at all. In this issue they included a very brief obituary for John M. Shaftesley (SI chairman 1973–6); a report of a survey of home computers in the Consumers’ Association magazine _Which?;_ a note that _No fond return of love_ by Barbara Pym, a gentle, romantic tale of a freelance indexer, now sports a paperback cover featuring a sheaf of index cards with pastel hearts drifting above them. If only it were always like that’; an explanation by Mary Piggott of the difference between microcomputers, microprocessors and word processors, concluding by seeming to spit out, ‘Word processing indeed! As if words were bits of offal to be turned into sausages!’; and a note that the _Journal of library history_ has published an article including ‘Notice to all English-language book publishers with manuscripts in process relating to the subject of indexing: “Cease and desist immediately”. No more such monographs should be published now or for another five years at least. The need is fully met.’

Finally, ‘Notes for contributors’ included the following instruction: ‘Two copies of each manuscript are required. Manuscripts should be typed double spaced, approximately 54 characters to the line, on one side only of unfolded white A4 paper.’ How times have changed!

## Editor’s note

I am fortunate to have an entire print run of _The Indexer_, and I immediately pulled out the October 1981 issue to have a look after I read Hazel’s article. I was amazed to find a 15-page index (in something like 8 pt type) to volume 12 (1980–81) in the middle of the issue. The incredibly detailed index was compiled by Freda Wilkinson and combines names, titles and subject terms in one sequence. In 2021 we still print an index in the final issue of each volume, but it is simply an author index and resembles an extended table of contents rather than a full index. The last volume index was produced in 2005 (to the 2004–5 volume). What changed and why, I wonder? We have been considering how to update the full index to _The Indexer_ on our website and pulling out this issue from 40 years ago was a timely reminder of what is possible – both in print and online – and considerations of what would be most useful.

## Footnote
