---
created: 2022-11-14T09:09:28 (UTC -08:00)
tags: []
source: https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2022.23
author: Madelon Nanninga
---

# ‘Indexing in Service of the Reader’: Association of Southern African Indexers and Bibliographers (ASAIB) 2022 conference | Indexer (The)

> ## Excerpt
> The Association of Southern African Indexers and Bibliographers (ASAIB) 2022 virtual conference was held on 20 May with the theme of ‘Indexing in Service of the Reader’. Madelon Nanninga reflects o...

---
Publication: The Indexer: The International Journal of Indexing

Volume 40, Number 3

## Abstract

The Association of Southern African Indexers and Bibliographers (ASAIB) 2022 virtual conference was held on 20 May with the theme of ‘Indexing in Service of the Reader’. Madelon Nanninga reflects on her experience joining the conference via Zoom from the Netherlands. She reports that the conference was particularly successful at highlighting not only the needs of readers but also the interconnections between indexers, authors and publishers.

On 20 May 2022, the Association of Southern African Indexers and Bibliographers (ASAIB) hosted their annual conference on Zoom, ‘Indexing in Service of the Reader’. This four-and-a-half-hour conference featured five sessions by different speakers, as well as discussions. At 500 rand (roughly £25), the costs for attending were very cheap (though I must add that the banking fees, which were charged for paying in euros from the Netherlands, were more than double that amount). There was also the possibility of attending pre-conference workshops on the day preceding the conference, which focused on bibliography and abstracting.<sup><a href="https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2022.23#fn1" role="doc-noteref" id="body-ref-fn1">1</a></sup>

The most interesting and unique part of this conference was its focus on the reader. In contrast to the other indexing societies’ conferences, which focused on best practices in indexing and being freelancers, the practice of indexing was a very minor part of this conference. Indeed, of the five speakers, none were practising indexers! This allowed for a fresh perspective, and interesting sessions that one wouldn’t expect to find at an indexing conference per se.

One of the major themes of the conference was the changing ways in which readers, or seekers of knowledge, encounter information. Naturally, a key reason for this development can be attributed to our use of the internet. Nicoline Wessels, who presented an opinion piece called ‘Lifelong Learning and Digital Citizenship: The Reader of Tomorrow’, argued that we have all become ‘immersed in digital technology’ – especially after the COVID-19 pandemic, during which everyone had to learn how to handle everything online. This has affected different kinds of people: young people who have to learn proper ‘netiquette’, older people who can’t access their local banks any more and are forced to learn how to use e-banking, farmers who can make use of the internet to educate themselves about proper farming techniques and the weather, and surgeons who can operate on patients halfway around the globe because of new technologies.

This digital immersion is intimately linked to the increasing importance of e-reading, which is another theme that was discussed by all speakers. Karin McGuirk, senior lecturer in the Department of Information Science at the University of South Africa, presented a session called ‘Making the Unseen Visible: The Reading Act’, in which she talked about the theory of reading and linked that to an ever-increasing digital world. ‘Who is this reader that we index for?’ she asks. Reading, assembling, arranging and grouping records are age-old activities, but the way readers interact with these texts has changed. They have access to new platforms, along with more and more published documents, which increasingly deal ‘with highly specific themes’. Indexers must function as a ‘guide to the intellectual content’ of these texts by providing a ‘dynamic … interaction between the human and the system’. It is important to realize that readers engage actively with the texts they read, and that we acknowledge the fact that readers are also ‘independent, inventive and creative’ thinkers. Instead of seeing texts as being self-contained and having established, literal meanings, we should to take into account the complexity and the varying ways in which the texts are used and read.

Readers have to be able to make sense of all the information that can be found digitally, and there are many types of experts that can help them. Teachers and librarians play important roles in guiding people to the information that they seek. Elize du Toit, specialist librarian, talked about ‘The Importance of Indexing for Embedded Librarianship’. She argued that librarians continue to play an important role in a changing information environment. Librarians ‘have to anticipate user needs \[by involving\] very customized information services’. For example, scholars want to find sources quickly and access them directly. Instead of going to the library, they type their search query into Google Scholar. Librarians, therefore, should respond to – or ideally anticipate – these non-traditional user needs and offer them themselves. According to Du Toit, ‘the services must be unlimited as well as personalized’.

Another important part of Du Toit’s job is teaching students how to apply search strategies. ‘I need to understand how this information is packaged together; I can’t train students or enhance their academic experience otherwise’, she informs the audience. She trains them in using Boolean connectors, snowballing and nesting, so that they are able to locate the research that they need. Unfortunately, these kinds of training sessions provided by the library are not very popular. Students are more interested in training in referencing methods and avoiding plagiarism, even though being able to search for information and understanding ‘the back end of how this information is packaged together’ are very important skills.

Daniel Gelaw Alemneh’s presentation, ‘Indexing in a Digital World’, focused on digital curation, or ‘the management, preservation, and enrichment of digital resources’. It was similar to Du Toit’s presentation in the sense that they both discussed techniques of information retrieval, though for Alemneh the management of digital resources was the most important part. Alemneh is digital curation coordinator at the University of North Texas libraries, as well as an adjunct professor teaching indexing, abstracting and information retrieval courses at the same university. He provided an in-depth case study of the Portal to Texas History, which he manages at the university. The portal provides open-access content to ‘rare, historical, and primary source materials from or about Texas’.<sup><a href="https://www.liverpooluniversitypress.co.uk/doi/10.3828/indexer.2022.23#fn2" role="doc-noteref" id="body-ref-fn2">2</a></sup> According to Alemneh, it is an extremely popular resource for many kinds of users who visit the website for divergent reasons. It is used by libraries, museums, government agencies, private collections, universities, middle-school students and the general public. It is Alemneh’s task to present the content to all these different groups in ways that correspond with their specific needs.

For Alemneh, user statistics are a key way to find out how users came to the portal and what they are trying to find there. He knows the search strings of the site visitors, who have accessed the portal from 206 different countries. Through interpreting the data, Alemneh found that metadata are an important part of digital curation. Users can’t find the information they are looking for by using search engines that only scan the full text of the content; in fact, only 21.8 per cent of the sampled 43,420 user queries could be discovered through the use of full-text scanning alone. This is why professional intervention in digital resources’ findability, by the use of both metadata and proper indexing, will ‘mitigate digital obsolescence, keeping the information accessible to users indefinitely’.

As a European attending a Southern African conference, I was especially interested in hearing about indexing from a Southern African point of view. During the break, not everyone stepped out to prepare a fresh batch of tea, as evidenced by the lively Zoom discussion. Marlene Burger, one of the organisers of the conference, pointed out that indexing standards are not always helpful in national contexts. Even though learning about indexing from an English course teaches one about the basics, it’s impossible to apply these rules to all different languages. Marlene pointed out that indexing in Zulu is very different from indexing in English, ‘because the structure is so different. You cannot translate into \[a language such as that\]. When you pronounce a word differently, the meaning changes. The same goes for capital letters. Spoken language is very different \[from written language\]’. Most of us know about the BSI standards, but different indexing standards exist for Chinese and German publications. According to Burger, South Africa uses the British version, but they encounter unique problems while indexing in South Africa, and therefore have to find a way to apply the same standards within their own framework.

What was truly fascinating was Karien Hutchison’s take on indexing within a Southern African context in her talk ‘Indexing in the Ever-Growing Digital Publishing World’. As a former publisher, she knows a lot about the publishing landscape in South Africa. According to her, indexers and publishers ‘work in complete isolation from each other. Publishers don’t know what’s happening in the indexing world, and indexers are struggling to have a voice in book development’. Because of this, as well as the financial constraints on the part of publishers, publications from Southern African publishers fail to adapt to readers’ changing needs in a meaningful way. While some ebooks have hyperlinked indexes that take readers to the corresponding page in the book, many publications don’t even have indexes. More importantly, even though publishers are trying to evolve along with digital publishing, they are still stuck in a ‘print workflow’. They hire a traditional, back-of-the-book indexer to create a print index, which is then converted into a digitized and hyperlinked index by an external vendor in Asia. The result may seem acceptable to both parties, but in reality, Hutchison argues, it results in ‘a severe lack of skills. Publishers aren’t investing in e-indexers. Why learn to e-index if publishers aren’t commissioning them?’

Hutchison offers a creative solution to e-publishing that truly aims to take advantage of everything digital technology has to offer to digital reading. According to her, e-indexes ‘don’t necessarily have to look the same way now as they do in print books’. She argues that truly digital indexes, fit for digital publications, are interactive and can be used to enhance searching. Hutchison is especially interested in applying this new type of indexing to educational books.

The conference had an intimate atmosphere. It had only 23 attendees, which included the speakers and the organizers. In my personal view, having such a small audience was a shame for the organizers, as the conference’s innovative angle and interesting speakers deserved to be heard by many more people. The small scale of the conference, however, allowed for charming aspects in the schedule and the technical side of Zoom. Some presenters finished their talks early, which meant that others started theirs half an hour ahead of schedule. When one speaker encountered problems with her microphone when it was her time to present, someone else did their presentation early instead, giving her time to resolve her computer issues. Another presenter was given control over Zoom so that she could share her screen; however, she had to return that control to the organizer when she was asked to let someone into the conference but didn’t know how to do that. I found these small imperfections, and the way the presenters and organizers handled them, a lovely part of the conference. It demonstrated everyone’s collegiality and gave the conference a sense of informality and welcome.

Unfortunately, during the first few presentations, no one had turned on their cameras – not even the speakers – which made the experience feel impersonal. Fortunately, after Hutchison took the lead in turning on her camera, other presenters followed. It should be noted that a high bandwidth is required to livestream everyone’s webcam feed, and not everyone is able to access fast internet like most of us in the global north are used to. Therefore technical constraints provide a good reason for the lack of faces during the conference. In the end, however, we got to see (almost) everyone’s faces for a minute, and even managed to take a digital group picture of people’s Zoom icons.

In conclusion, speakers from different professions that deal with reading and information management provided us with many different angles to think about readership. For readers to make good use of all the information that can be found online, it is important to educate them on how to become digitally literate, critical thinkers. However, that’s only one part of the picture. Digital resources should also be managed, preserved and curated effectively in order to be available for these readers. Digitization forces everyone in the publishing chain to adapt to technical changes, and we are not yet making full use of the limitless opportunities on offer. This conference has shown how everyone, from authors to editors, publishers, indexers and readers, is interconnected. It’s up to us to collaborate with all the others involved in this chain to create innovative ways to utilize everything that digital publishing has to offer.

## Footnotes
