---
created: 2022-09-30T13:18:53 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/8-dot-7-indexing-project-3
author: 
---

# 8.7 Indexing Project 3: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 8 activities page

---
[Return to Module 8 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-8 "Module 8")

## 8.7 Indexing Project 3

This assignment is to complete your third full-length index. The text, which is available in PDF format, is ["Plagiarism, Norms, and the Limits of Theft Law: Some Observations on the Use of Criminal Sanctions in Enforcing Intellectual Property Rights"](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565715/download?wrap=1 "green.pdf")

(University of California, Hastings College of the Law, 2002). Reprinted from _Hastings Law Journal_, Volume 54, Number 1, November 2002, 167, by permission. Some of you may want to use your completed Green index as an example of your work for the purpose of marketing. However, we request that, out of courtesy for those taking this course in the future, you refrain from posting this index on your website. If you desire to display an example of your work we suggest that you select another text, of your own choosing, and post that on your website instead.

This is a scholarly text and will be very challenging to index. It is divided into sections with headings, is clearly written, and may look less difficult than it actually is, so do not underestimate this assignment.

There are some special issues to be aware of while writing this index -- for example, distinguishing characters out of novels from real people in the index. Another issue will be how to present the metatopic of plagiarism in the index. Since the entire text is on plagiarism, it might be tempting to index most of the material under this heading. However, in that case, you might as well turn in an index with one main heading:

plagiarism, 167-242

To avoid this unfortunate arrangement, you will have to divide the information on plagiarism into smaller subtopics by writing "clustered" main headings. Clustering, sometimes called "nesting," is a technique by which the main topic of a text can be divided to increase the index's usability. For example, let's look at a book with a human rights metatopic. Just as in the indexing assignment you are about to write, it would not be appropriate to have an index with a single main heading of "human rights" covering all of the material on this subject. Using clustering as an alternative approach, you might have several main headings on various aspects of the human rights metatopic. For example:

human rights  
human rights activism  
human rights intervention  
human rights theory  
human rights violations

Using the above list of main headings in the index is a better solution than indexing all of the above text material under the single heading of "human rights." Not only is it easier for a reader to access specific information, but the index is more esthetically pleasing. An index with a single main heading, covering several columns or even pages, is unattractive as well as difficult to read.

There are footnotes in this text. Author and title citations are never included in the index from the footnotes. Individuals, including authors, who are _discussed_ (as opposed to merely cited) in the footnotes and have not already been indexed from in the regular text page may be included in the index. Only _new_ conceptual information found in the footnotes is included in the index. If the same conceptual information has already been discussed in the regular text of that same page, then the page reference should be from the regular text page only and not from the footnote. More information on how to index footnotes and endnotes can be found in Mulvany and Chicago.

The final special issue for this assignment is that you will be required to limit the length of the index to approximately 300 lines. Before we go on to discuss strategies for limiting the length of the index, it is important to talk about the implications for term selection. When an indexer has limited space for the index, they will have to make difficult decisions on what terms to include or exclude. And those term selection decisions will be largely based on the topic and audience expectations. For example, if you are working on a critical literature text, then the audience will expect to see information on fictional characters, literary themes, and authors. In contrast, if the text is on sociology, then the audience will expect to look up information on society, social institutions, culture, and other related topics instead of fictional characters and literary themes. Term selection must always take into consideration the audience and anticipate what they will want to find in the index.

Keeping the focus on the anticipated needs of the reader audience is even more important when the index has limited space. The limited space means that the indexer will have to make difficult, even ruthless, decisions on what they can include in the index. For this assignment the expected audience will be law students and attorneys. As you read the text, imagine what that audience will want to look up in the index. For example, is it going to be fictional characters, literary authors, or legal concepts and themes? Remember that the quality of an index is determined by how effectively it provides the reader with the information they want to find. Providing superfluous information in the index, while leaving out pertinent information, is a real risk when working with a limited space requirement. Unlimited space allows the luxury of both relevant and less relevant information inclusion into an index. In contrast, when working with a limited space, the indexer must be prepared to focus on including only the most important significant information first before considering less noteworthy information. It is only when you have satisfied your primary duty to the reader, providing them with the most important data that you can, that you can include less significant information.

Returning to the logistics of constructing a limited space index, for the purposes of this assignment you will not be required to calculate the maximum number of lines allowed for the index but can simply assume that the maximum number is 300 lines and a maximum of 36 characters per line. You will be required to track the number of entries you are picking up per page (should be between three and four entries per page). Check the statistics kept by the indexing software you are using to keep track of how many entries per page you are entering. Remember that this is an average and that you will have more entries on some pages and fewer entries on others. In order to complete this indexing project, you will have to familiarize yourself with the statistics kept by the indexing program you have selected to use for this assignment.

One approach to keeping an index length under control is to write more general versus detailed subheadings. Space can be saved if you combine multiple subheadings into a single more general subheading. For example:

antibiotic treatment  
   CAP (community-acquired pneumonia), 12, 14t  
   HAP (hospital-acquired pneumonia), 12, 15, 16  
   late-onset or multidrug-resistant pathogens, 18t  
   VAP (ventilator-associated pneumonia), 12-15, 16t

To shorten this it becomes:

antibiotic treatment pneumonia, 12-16t, 18t

While the first example obviously provides more detailed information the second example will also send the reader to the correct information. The first example may be more useful to the reader but the second example saves space and doesn't prevent the reader from accessing the pertinent information.

_Special note for students using SKY for this indexing assignment:_ Make sure that you understand the difference between a SKY record, entry, and line. If you don't understand the difference, as defined in SKY, you will not end up with the correct length for this assignment.

Be sure that you can also check your index length using Word, as explained in [Topic 6.8](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/6-dot-8-estimating-index-size "6.8 Estimating Index Size"). For additional information on controlling the index length, read Max McMaster’s [Pruning the Lengthy Index](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/pruning-the-lengthy-index "Pruning the Lengthy Index")_._

The indexing specifications are as follows:

-   Use letter-by-letter sorting.
    
-   All main headings are to be lowercase with the exception of proper nouns.
    
-   Index all names found in the text using spelled-out first names.
    
-   Footnotes are to be indexed according to Chicago 17th recommendations.
    
-   Use a combined name and subject index.
    
-   Use a run-in style format for the index.
    
-   Page references are to follow Chicago 17th recommendations.
    
-   Use an en dash (not a hyphen) to indicate a page range.
    
-   Use only one level of subheadings (no sub-subheadings).
    
-   Try to maintain an average of three to four entries per page in order to end up with the 300 maximum line count.
    
-   Complete the indexing assignment using CINDEX, MACREX, or SKY. Select the one software that you would like to use for this assignment.
    
-   Save the file in rich text format (.rtf) and attach it to your assignment submission. Be sure to include your name and course number in the name of the document: "your name X477 Indexing Project 3."
    
-   Remember to query the editor regarding any discrepancies in the text, or put red flags on text errors.
    
-   Cross references are to be formatted as in the example below:
    

main heading: subheading; subheading;  
   subheading. _see also_ cross reference

main heading. _see_ cross reference

Once again, do not underestimate this assignment. Carefully follow the specifications and remember that you _can_ query the editor (in this case, me) regarding any needed clarification.

[Submit Project 3 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460032 "Indexing Project 3")
