# SoundSense writeup of my videochat
#z-archives/CAPD
 [https://www.unitron.com/content/dam/unitron-2014/documents/english/TrueFit/installguide/029-5861-02o_TrueFit_3-7_installationguide_ENG.pdf](https://www.unitron.com/content/dam/unitron-2014/documents/english/TrueFit/installguide/029-5861-02o_TrueFit_3-7_installationguide_ENG.pdf) 

More info on my (very positive) appointment with Sound Sense, the folks doing low-gain hearing aid trials for people with auditory processing issues. Tagging **** to make sure you see this before Slack's message limit eats it. I can't remember who else was interested—*** maybe? This is a LOT of info so I will thread. 

The phone call: the audiologist, Dr. Rae, did a videochat with me. My impression was that's what she usually does, not an actual phonecall, even though the scheduling email I got after I filled out the self-assessment and appointment request form said "phonecall". It lasted 30 minutes. The videochat is partly so that they can check that the adult or kid who would be using the hearing aids is not being coerced by a parent or partner—they won't work with people who don't want to be involved, whether they're adults or kids. (I guess they want to see you on camera for that? Since someone else could impersonate a relative in text more easily, although camera is obviously not a guarantee that you're talking to the right person.)
I asked some questions about what was involved in the trial, how they decided whether someone was a candidate, whether people usually did an evaluation through them or locally if they found the trial helped (we got distracted off the third question because I brought up insurance, and I forgot to follow up). 
The trial only costs shipping ($40 for the U.S.). There is also a damage deposit ($600). If you buy permanent hearing aids the deposit goes toward their cost. Permanent hearing aids are very expensive ($5-8k including aftercare), and this is often not covered by insurance; more about insurance further down. (Some of the cost is because for auditory processing you need hearing aids that are programmable - they use specialized algorithms and some other stuff - but a lot of it is because hearing aids in general are just incredibly expensive.) 

I'd mentioned earlier in the channel that my friend who is also going to talk to them and I had some weirdness around accommodations. That's apparently partly because they get people trying to appropriate Deafness sometimes (I know from other sources that this is a thing that happens) and they are much more likely to ask for accommodations than their other clients. 
I found her very comfortable to talk to. She is not very diplomatic, but in the autistic/ADHD kind of way where someone is being honest with you, and also knows that they're not very good at NT diplomacy-speak. It could have been a negative but I honestly found it to be a positive - like, I didn't have to spend the appointment wondering "what is she thinking about me". She struck me as definitely not NT and I would not be surprised if she were autistic + ADHD; I definitely had the same sense of rapport I've gotten with some other autistic people and with no NT people. 
She seemed to very much understand the issue of auditory fatigue i.e. not just difficulty understanding words, and to understand what people's experiences are like. 
She did simcom (simultaneous signing and speech) with me—I said that videochat so I could see her face + my phone captioning would be fine but she offered to do it anyway and I took her up on it and it was actually great. She can also type and talk at the same time. I forgot to check on whether they have the business version of Zoom (the videochat client), which can do not-completely-terrible autocaptioning. I used my phone's autocaptioning and reviewed it again afterward which is why this is so long.

They don't have a grant or external funding, and the trial is not a research trial, though they usually ask people to give some feedback for their own purposes. She said the reason it's not a research trial is that it's very hard to get funding for anything CAPD-related unless you're willing to exclude people who have additional conditions, and they're not willing to exclude people who have more than just auditory processing issues, like autistic people. (And also that they're not researchers.) She said she mentioned that partly because people were sometimes worried they were selling information they collected, and they don't sell it. 
They do get clients from it, but they also do the trials for people who don't wind up becoming clients. My impression is that they are really, honestly doing this (as opposed to getting clients some other way) because of being and/or knowing people with auditory processing issues, and to some degree out of the goodness of their hearts, and I mean that sincerely and not sarcastically. Kate (one of the admins and I think the driving force behind the project) has a daughter who also volunteers to help out sometimes, and who was the original normal-hearing CAPD patient that Dr. Rae tried low-gain hearing aids with. (Dr. Rae mentioned that but it's also on their website—she wasn't disclosing a patient's medical into to me.)

There is no assessment required to do the trial beyond the initial self-assessment and questionnaire, just the shipping and deposit. She talks with you, and then if you want to do it you can, as long as you don't have an active history of drainage or other infections. 
The trial lasts six weeks. There is a waiting list, which she said is technically six weeks but in practice often shorter because a lot of their clients are kids and the flu is going around and some of them get ear infections. 

*You need Windows 10* to do the 3-5 assessments she usually does during the course of the trial's six weeks. She's had one person do it via dual-booting on a Mac (she said an emulator doesn't work). I have set up Bootcamp for dual-booting on a Mac in the past, although it was a headache. You can get a Windows 10 license on eBay for $5-8, fwiw. 

*Insurance*: They've had limited success with getting reimbursements from U.S. Insurance (she didn't mention anywhere else), since a lot of insurances don't want to pay unless there's demonstrable impairment on a traditional audiology test. There are some other diagnostic codes they use sometimes, like for sound sensitivity. They have found that insurance companies generally deny requests if they try to bill under CAPD or tinnitus. They've been able to get about 15-20% of insurances to pay. If she does a traditional audiological test (an audiogram) and is able to find borderline impairment in even one area, it's much easier to get insurance approval. She mentioned they've had folks propose barter for hearing aids in the past, and they don't do it anymore because it's worked out badly. 

*Success rates*: 85-95% of their adult clients have said they benefit; this is partly because they can communicate their preferences better than children so it's easier to fine-tune and adjust the hearing aids, and probably also partly because some of the enhancements can help people with normal hearing and no auditory processing issues hear better in some situations. Adults who acknowledge they're having problems tend to do really well, as do kids in the 3-7 age range, who just "take off like that" (this is speculation on my own part, but my guess is that younger kids are less likely to have compensatory strategies and that kids who get diagnosed at that age tend to have more obvious problems, so they experience a dramatic difference with vs without the hearing aids). Success rates are lower with teens, who are more likely to avoid wearing hearing aids for appearance reasons. 
They have also found the hearing aids useful for sound sensitivity and misophonia. She also mentioned apraxia and language development delays, though I think those were with respect to kids. 
They've had a number of young adults (in their 20s) do the trial and make off with the hearing aids without paying for them, and may wind up closing the trial to young adults. 

She values having adults who do the trials share their experiences with parents of kids with CAPD since the kids are less skilled at sharing their experiences, often due to language delays. She doesn't want parents thinking it's a magic pill that you take and it fixes all your problems. 
I asked about their kid/adult client ratio and she said 70% kids, 30% adults.

I asked if they had people do volunteer work for them, and they don't, but she was interested enough that she suggested I email one of their admins. I also mentioned that I was planning to write up my experiences along with a friend who also might wind up doing the trial, and she liked the idea and said she might be interested in contributing as well. 


Adding a link to the Facebook group: https://www.facebook.com/groups/1769149956464963/

And to the self-assessment questionnaire: https://www.sound-sense.net/Self-APD-Tool.html

If you take the self-assessment questionnaire, it will take you to a second form afterward to ask to talk about the trial. A day or two after I did that, I got an email (probably automated) with a link to sign up for a phone appointment.

I replied asking about accommodations, didn't get a response, and realized that the email address it was sent from was different from the email address in the signature block. I emailed the one in the signature block (susan@, I think) and got a reply.