---
created: 2022-09-27T13:11:13 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/6-dot-3-agreeing-to-a-fee-structure
author: 
---

# 6.3 Agreeing to a Fee Structure: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 6 activities page

---
[Return to Module 6 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-6 "Module 6")

## 6.3 Agreeing to a Fee Structure

When I first began indexing in 1989, most of the work being offered to indexers was coming directly from publishers. Though there were some packagers offering book production services to publishers, and hiring indexers directly, they were in the minority of available indexing projects.

In the past decade this ratio has dramatically changed. Though an indexer can still work directly with many different publishers, there are many more packagers than there were in the past. These large-size packagers provide production services at a considerable cost savings to publishers, and multiple university presses and other large publishing houses regularly use them. As a result, indexers are increasingly being hired, and paid, by a packager instead of working directly for the publisher. 

In 1989, the going rate for a university press project was $2.50/page. Fortunately, that rate has increased over the years and many indexers report making $6.00 to $8.00/page working for university presses as well as when they are hired directly by the author. Packagers who hire indexers may offer indexing work for much less than what an indexer can receive by working directly for an editor or author. I’ve been quoted a low of $3.10 to $4.00/page by packagers for the same type of indexing project that will pay $6.00 or more when offered by a university press editor or the author. Working for packagers can provide an index with consistent repeat work but with the tradeoff a lower page rate.

The American Society for Indexing 2021 [Professional Activities and Salary Survey (Links to an external site.)](https://www.asindexing.org/salary-survey/) concludes that per page rates have gone up since the previous 2016 survey and that there are more indexers charging per word rates than in previous years. However, according to the survey, 87% of indexers continue to prefer a per page rate.

When reviewing the ASI Salary Survey, keep in mind that not all US indexers belong to ASI and there is no way of knowing how many indexers responded to the survey. In addition, there has always been a wide range between what a part-time indexer makes versus some indexers who report making a six-figure income. An indexer’s income will depend on what kind of clients they have, how fast they are able to work, how many projects they choose to accept, as well as their individual business acuity. That said, the survey is likely a reasonable representation of the average indexer income and provides useful information.

### Per Page

Publishers that say they pay "by the page" generally mean only indexable pages. That excludes front matter paginated by roman numerals as well as the table of contents. It also excludes back matter that is not indexed, such as glossaries, appendices, and references. (There may be times when clients specifically request that pages with roman numerals, glossaries, and appendices be included in the index, but those are exceptions.)

In contrast, other publishers have the policy of including _all_ pages, both indexable and nonindexable, in the index invoice. Usually, these are presses that pay on the low end of the per page rate scale, but by including all pages in the final fee, the total pay can equal that of a press that pays more per page but only includes the indexable pages.

Per page rates vary depending upon the type of text and the press. In the United States the rate for a trade book index might be $3.50/page, which is $700 for a 200-page text. The rate for a medical textbook with the same number of pages might be $5.00/page, making the total indexing fee $1,000. An indexer can figure out how much he or she is making per hour by dividing the invoice amount by the number of hours an indexing project has taken.

==The February 2003 issue of i-TORQUE introduces the concept of "The Zone." The Zone is defined as hourly earnings at or above $50. As the i-TORQUE article explains, $50 an hour, after overhead business deductions, results in a net rate of $32.50 an hour. The article makes it clear that The Zone hourly rate is the minimum that an indexer should consistently be grossing per hour. The goal of all serious indexers should be to use The Zone as a baseline rate and to increase their indexing speeds to increase their incomes.

Compare this with the most recent American Society for Indexing 2021 Professional Activities and Salary Survey’s discussion on hourly income trends. And keep in mind that the cost of living has increased since the 2003 iTORQUE discussion. 

The implications are clear that an indexer needs to carefully consider the clients, type of indexing work, and indexing fees required to produce their desired income level. 

### Per Hour

The hourly pay rate in the United States can range anywhere from $25 to $50 an hour, or higher, depending on the press and type of text.

There are some disadvantages in contracting for a per hour rate for a back-of-the-book index. First of all, an experienced indexer can often index quickly enough that he or she can make much more per hour using the per page rate or per entry rate than a client would ordinarily be willing to pay per hour. And second, it may be difficult for either the indexer or client to accurately anticipate what the final cost of the index might be, because it will depend on the speed and experience of the indexer as well as the text density and/or difficulty. So a press may receive a higher invoice amount than expected due to the slow indexing speed of an indexer or unexpected problems with the text.

On the other hand, there can be some advantages in the per hour rates for the indexer who is inexperienced or tends to be a slower indexer.

There may be certain situations when a per hour rate is appropriate for both client and editor, so each project needs to be individually assessed. Embedded indexing is one of those situations. Embedded indexing fee structures will be discussed in Module 9.

### Per Project

Billing by the project is another method of fee structuring, although it is less common than either by the page or by the hour. This is not a method typically used for scholarly text, textbook, or trade book projects, but it may be used for documentation text indexing.

### Per Entry

Per entry rates refer to the individual index entries made. For example, for a 200-page book, you might end up with a 750-entry index. A per entry rate of 50 cents an entry, for a light text, would result in a $375 fee for the index. The same per entry rate for a more dense text, requiring a more detailed index with 1,200 entries, would result in a $600 indexing fee. Per entry rates have gone up in the last few years and 70 cents an entry is not unusual. 

There must be agreement on what constitutes an entry. Take the following entry example:

Main heading, 11, 28, 34, 75

This would be considered one entry by most presses, but some presses would call it four entries. It is best to check with the client.

### Per Word

The general guideline for number of words in a book page is approximately 500 words single spaced and 250 words double spaced. In recent years, some publishers have increased the word count in a published book page by changing type and size of font, spacing, margins, and other similar page layout factors. This can produce considerable cost savings to the publisher, but there are significant implications for the indexer. An indexer is no longer able to accurately estimate the word count of an offered indexing project without first seeing the pages. And, of course, a variation in page word count can dramatically impact how much time will be required for indexing as well as the income made from the project. The solution that many indexers have adopted is to charge by the word instead of the page.

### Conclusion

Pay rate decisions need to be made in the context of actual income received (minus taxes and other overhead expenses). Other factors include the individual speed of the indexer, type of text, and the indexer's familiarity with the subject matter. Those factors will make a substantial difference in the hourly wages of different indexers, even at the same rate of pay.
