---
created: 2022-09-27T13:50:58 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/6-dot-12-indexing-exercise-4
author: 
---

# 6.12 Indexing Exercise 4: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 6 activities page

---
The index below, written for the purpose of this exercise, contains numerous errors. Locate them and correct them using a red font in bold. (In Word, go to the Format menu and select Font, then change the font color to red and the font style to bold.)

For the purpose of this exercise, the index specifications are to follow the Chicago 17th run-in format and recommended preferences for indexes. Remember that you are only to proof and not to copy edit this index.

Save your file as a rich text format (.rtf) document and attach it to your assignment submission. Be sure to include your name and the course number in the name of the file: "your name X477 Exercise 4." (Remember to send your Online Research assignment as well; instructions in Topic 6.6.)

basic indexing courses. _See_ indexing instruction  
  
editors, challenges of working with novice, 10; value of good, 11;  
        index queries by, 6; repeat business from, 5;  
  
freelance indexers, answering queries of clients, 6; challenges of  
        working with novice editors, 10; indexing profession  
        represented by each, 4; Internet discussion/mailing lists  
        for, 18; professional credibility of, 3; publishing mergers  
        affecting, 8, securing repeat business, 5; _See also_  
        professionalism  
  
indexers, _See_ freelance indexers  
indexes, challenges of evaluating, 6; preparing  
        professional/polished, 2  
indexing instruction, availablity of basic, 17, 15; indexing  
        rules/guidelines as part of, 2; promoting professional  
        through superior, 1  
Internet discussion/mailing lists, 18  
  
newbies, encouraging and reteining, 13-14; increasing interest in  
        indexing by, 12; indexing rules/guidelines learned by, 2;  
        superior instruction crucial for, 1  
professionalism, debate over credential system and, 3; individual  
        reinforcement of, 4; superior indexing instruction to promote,  
        1. See also freelance indexers

--------
==Please note that the strike-through in the semicolon after "repeat business from, 5" indicates a deletion. 

 “freelance indexers: indexing profession represented by each” isn’t grammatical (lack of numerical agreement), but removing the “each” would be changing the wording of an entry, which is copyediting. So I have left it. However,

I have updated “professional” to “professionalism” because it appears to be a typo in which part of a word was omitted, which falls within the scope of proofreading. I’m unsure about the “each” in “freelance indexers: indexing profession represented by each”. I asked

For the "freelance indexers" entry, since the following entry indicates that “indexers” means the same as “freelance indexers”, I have marked "freelance" with a strikethrough to bring the more important word ("indexers") forward. I have also marked this deletion in the cross-reference under “professionalism”. For similar reasons, I have also struck through the “indexing” in “indexing instruction”: the metatopic is indexing/indexers, and the relationship of the main heading to the metatopic should be assumed.

In the "freelance indexers" entry, most subheadings lack a grammatical relationship with the main heading. In general, these subentries appear to be about material *for* freelance indexers rather than *about* freelance indexers. I suspect this is an example of an overburdened metatopic and that most or all of these would be better redone as main headings, e.g. "clients, answering queries of".

Under "professionalism", the phrase "credential system" sounds off; I would check the original to be sure this was not a typo for "credentialing system".

“newbies” is an unusually informal term, and an unclear one. I would suggest “new indexers”.

I've assumed the line breaks are in the desired places.

Internet discussion/mailing lists, 18: this is for freelance indexers, but not noted here

Under “professionalism”, the subheading “individual reinforcement of” is unclear. I suspect this refers to something like “every indexer has a duty to be professional, to uphold standards and present the field in a positive light”, and a better heading might be “as responsibility of individual indexers”.

needs to be a “practice of indexing” or “business of indexing”

or “future of indexing”

**Before You Begin**

The first thing to check when beginning a new project is the publisher's style sheet. Starting the process with the proper format eliminates many editing problems. You will need to know:

-   Alphabetization: letter-by-letter or word-by-word
-   Cross-reference format and placement

**While You're Indexing**

Once you have started, pay attention to structural issues that may develop in your index.

-   Coverage of both general and specific topics
-   Metatopic overload (Are you lumping too much under the overall subject of the book?)
-   Completeness and comprehensiveness of main headings
-   Multiple access points for the same term -- double-posting page numbers accurately
-   Cross-references to move users around the index

There are issues specific to main headings, subheadings, cross-references, and double-posting that you should be aware of.

**Main Heading Issues**

-   Broad main headings with too many subheadings: break them down into more-specific main headings.
-   Closely related main headings: combine main headings into one main heading.
-   Main headings needing distinctions in meaning: use more than one main heading, not one general heading for all.
-   Wording: use nouns, adjectives + nouns, gerunds, or noun phrases.

**Subheading Issues**

-   Subheadings that have too many locators: break out a subheading into a main heading and link it to the original main heading with a cross-reference.
-   Combine or delete subheadings if there are too many subheadings for the number of pages.
-   Wording: make your wording concise, using keyword access.
-   Sub-subheadings: avoid these if possible, but use with biography, medical, and legal materials.

**Cross-Reference Issues**

Cross-references must match the main heading exactly. Add any additional cross-references that are needed. Avoid the following:

-   Blind references
-   Circular cross references
-   Convoluted references leading to another _See_ references rather than directly to a main heading

**Double-Posting Issues**

Double-posting refers to the use of the same term or concept in different positions in the index (as main heading, as subheading, as acronym). These double-postings must be consistent. A thorough double-postings check also provides a way to look at the index in a different way. Use group mode on main headings and other concepts to find all instances of them within the index. Check these types of headings for consistent page numbers:

-   Direct flipping of main headings and subheadings
-   Subheading as a separate main heading
-   Foreign language terms and translations of foreign language terms
-   Acronyms/abbreviations and full form of name
-   Synonyms with few page numbers

**General Editorial Issues to Keep an Eye On as You Go**

While you're indexing, use the spell-check feature, and keep the following problem areas in mind:

-   Consistency in hyphenated words
-   Name-place organization starting with the same word
-   Proper names: check as you go
-   Inappropriate use of boldface or italic font
-   Parentheses and quotation mark sets
-   Spaces in wrong places
-   Consistency in spelling and capitalization
-   Locators that are obviously wrong -- large numbers, individual locators that should be combined in a page range (79, 79-81, 80)

**When You've Completed the Index Structure**

When you are ready for the final edit and proofing process, allow some time for editorial distance. Start fresh in the morning or after lunch. You will need to counteract the "glaze-over factor" that comes from being involved with the material for several days or weeks. Separate pass-throughs for editing and proofreading are helpful, so you don't have to look for everything in one pass. Below is a suggested list of issues to concentrate on in separate passes.

-   Undifferentiated page numbers and synonymous main headings
-   Locators that are obviously wrong
-   Main headings with lots of subheadings and wording of subheadings
-   Double-postings of concepts, synonyms, and abbreviations/acronyms
-   Cross-reference accuracy