---
created: 2022-09-27T13:15:42 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/6-dot-4-indexing-specifications
author: 
---

# 6.4 Indexing Specifications: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 6 activities page

---
[Return to Module 6 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-6 "Module 6")

## 6.4 Indexing Specifications

As we discussed in [Topic 4.3](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/4-dot-3-indexing-specifications-issues "4.3 Indexing Specifications Issues"), indexing specifications need to be communicated by the publisher. If the editor fails to give you complete instructions, you will need to ask for additional specifics and clarify any confusing information. Inexperienced or busy and overwhelmed editors may sometimes fail to provide complete specification details or important information regarding space limitations.

Some presses have indexing style sheets or guidelines that they can provide with the page proofs. ==Other presses may not have a strict preference for indexing specifications and might vaguely say, "Follow Chicago." **That isn't sufficient information. When you are lacking proper instructions, ask the editor for a copy of another index that is formatted in an acceptable manner for the press. Once you have that index, it is easy to simply identify and follow the indexing specifications in it.**

Although it is the responsibility of the client to provide pertinent project details, the reality is that the indexer will be blamed if the index is not delivered with the correct specifications. And that blame will translate into not receiving any further work from the client. So be sure to get all the instructions you require to turn in an acceptable index.

Following are two examples of indexing specifications provided by two different presses. The first example is sent out by Princeton University Press, and the second example is an outdated indexing specification list from Jossey-Bass Inc., a press that publishes books for professionals. Though the Jossey-Bass information is outdated, and this press now uses a format called the SD Template, it is instructive to look at their former coding requirements. As you review both sets of indexing specifications, I'd like you to consider some specific aspects of their guidelines. Please note that neither guide includes a complete list of indexing specifications and that any questions or need for clarification should be directed to the editor.

### Princeton University Press

Indexing, unlike proofing and copyediting, is customarily considered the financial responsibility of the author. Reflecting that tradition, the [Princeton University Press (PUP) indexing specifications](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565805/download?wrap=1 "unit06princeton.doc")

\[in Word format\] are written for authors, not professional indexers. Like many university presses, PUP will either recommend an indexer to an author or contact an indexer on behalf of the author. Payment for the index will either be deducted from author royalties or directly paid by the author. Often an author will be able to secure a department or university grant to cover the cost of the index.

Special aspects to note in the PUP specifications:

-   They make the assumption that the index will be compiled manually, as in the old "shoebox" method, and not by using any indexing software.

-   _The Chicago Manual of Style_ is the preferred method to follow, including

-   Letter-by-letter sorting
-   Only proper nouns are capitalized
-   Page references follow Chicago style (i.e., 100-23)

### Jossey-Bass

When you're reading the [Jossey-Bass indexing specifications](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565895/download?wrap=1 "unit06josseybass.doc")

 \[in Word format\], note:

-   Several non-Chicago recommendations, such as:

-   Word-by-word sorting
-   Capitalized main headings
-   Legal cases are in roman type instead of italics
-   All name/author citations (this means citations inside parentheses as well as in the regular text) are included in the index
-   Page references show complete numbers (i.e., 100-123, not 100-23)

-   Special formatting codes (When faced with this kind of requirement, it may be possible to ask your technical support for help in creating a layout that includes these formatting requirements.)

The delivery instructions on the Jossey-Bass specs are outdated. This press now requests e-mail attachments.
