---
created: 2022-09-27T13:17:14 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/6-dot-5-arranging-due-dates
author: 
---

# 6.5 Arranging Due Dates: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 6 activities page

---
[Return to Module 6 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-6 "Module 6")

## 6.5 Arranging Due Dates

Delivery deadlines differ according to the types of text and presses. Large projects, which are delivered over a period of weeks (or sometimes even months), typically have a due date set for two weeks following the delivery of the last page proofs to the indexer. Since the schedule may "slip" over time, the due date will typically be adjusted accordingly to remain two weeks after the last pages have been delivered to the indexer. Some generalized delivery schedule information is collected below.

-   Scholarly work from university presses, with an average length of 200 to 300 pages of text, are almost always three to four weeks after delivery of page proofs, though there may be "rush" situations when the index needs to be delivered within two weeks. However, many university presses are willing to pay an additional rush fee when quick turnarounds are needed. For larger projects of 500 to 600 pages, there may be five weeks allowed for the indexing.

-   Non-university scholarly indexing projects more commonly have two- to three-week turnarounds, though again, for particularly large projects, more time will be allowed.

-   Textbooks, which may range anywhere from 200 pages to very large 1,000-plus pages, will typically have due dates two weeks following delivery of the last page proofs.

-   Trade book projects may range anywhere from one to two weeks, depending on the press.

-   Documentation indexes, due to the shorter production period, require very rapid turnarounds -- sometimes a matter of only a few days. Deadlines for these projects are a very serious matter and may even be timed to a specific hour of the day.

Due dates may be, and often are, affected by human error, natural disasters, and worst of all, unrealistic expectations by clients. Don't be bullied into a due date that will cause you to turn in an unacceptable index for which you will then be penalized by the client. If the client really requires an impractical deadline, make sure there is a mutual understanding of what a "quick and dirty" index will mean.
