---
created: 2022-09-16T19:39:30 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/5-dot-3-information-questions?module_item_id=89811897
author: 
---

# 5.3 Information Questions: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 5 activities page

---
[Return to Module 5 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-5 "Module 5")

## 5.3 Information Questions

Every text, regardless of subject, density, or intended audience, has information (or messages) that the author is attempting to convey. This is true of all texts, from the most complex of scholarly material to the simplest of nursery rhymes. It is by asking and answering the information questions that we can identify not only the message that the author is trying to convey, but also the thematic argument by which the author makes his case.

Let's return to the familiar nursery rhyme "Humpty Dumpty" to apply this process of identifying the information questions to select entries.

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall.  
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.  
All the King's horses and all the King's men  
Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again.

What is the information, or derived knowledge, found in this familiar child's rhyme? Let us assume, just for the benefit of this exercise, that each line is a chapter in a book about Humpty Dumpty. To simplify this exercise, I am going to supply hypothetical page numbers to each line.

First, let us examine a poorly constructed index. If the indexer only looks for the "who" or "what" in the text, the index will look something like this:

the fall, 4-6  
Humpty Dumpty, 1-3, 4-6, 10-13  
King's horses, 7-9, 10-13  
King's men, 7-9, 10-13  
the wall, 1-3, 4-6

Notice that all the pertinent pieces of information are in the above index. However, there are no relationships between the entries, and instead of a viable index structure there is only a list of terms.

In contrast to the above approach, if we ask the "who, what, where, when, why, and under what circumstances" questions, a far different index will emerge. We'll start by looking at the first line (or chapter):

"Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall"

-   Who is doing what? _(Humpty Dumpty is sitting.)_
-   Where is Humpty Dumpty sitting? _(on a wall)_
-   When and why is Humpty Dumpty sitting on the wall? _(The text doesn't answer the question of when or why.)_

So the main headings, along with the subentries that clarify those main headings, look like this:

Humpty Dumpty  
   wall sitting by, 1-3  
the wall  
   Humpty Dumpty sitting on, 1-3

These entries recreate the pattern of information in the first line, or chapter, of this rhyme. The "who" and "what" questions have been answered and used to create both the main and subentries above. Moving along to the second and third lines:

"Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.  
All the King's horses and all the King's men"

-   What has happened? _(Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.)_
-   To whom? _(Humpty Dumpty)_
-   Where? _(from the wall)_
-   Why? _(We don't know.)_

We will also add information regarding responses of other actors (King's horses and men) to the fall of Humpty Dumpty. So the main and subentries look like this:

the fall  
   King's horses/men arrive following, 7-9  
King's horses  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9  
King's men  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9

And, finally, the third and fourth lines:

"All the King's horses and all the King's men  
Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again."

-   What was the result of the fall? _(Humpty Dumpty suffered permanent damage.)_
-   Who suffered from the fall? _(Humpty Dumpty did.)_
-   Who else was involved? _(King's horses and men couldn't fix the damage.)_
-   Why couldn't the damage be fixed? _(We don't know.)_

The entries and subentries look like this:

the fall  
   permanent nature of damage from, 10-13  
Humpty Dumpty  
   permanent damage suffered by, 10-13  
King's horses  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13  
King's men  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

By asking and answering the information questions, we end up with the main headings and subheadings for this index. We were unable to ascertain the answers to some of our questions; therefore, there are no entries referring to that missing information.

The last component of the Berkeley Way of Indexing is the concurrent process of selecting and editing terms. It is this last component, combined with asking the information questions and the use of thematic thinking to identify potential entries, that allows the efficient creation of a high-quality index.
