---
created: 2022-09-16T19:44:18 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/5-dot-5-example-of-the-indexing-process?module_item_id=89811901
author: 
---

# 5.5 Example of the Indexing Process: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 5 activities page

---
[Return to Module 5 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-5 "Module 5")

## 5.5 Example of the Indexing Process

To help you to practice this indexing process, I’ve provided a text and index for you to review. Although every indexing project requires a unique process, this example may help you plan your own approach to the indexing assignment. Do not try to use the example as an exact model for indexing but only as a means to envision the process of term selection, coverage of topical material, creation of the index structure, and construction of the index structure.

### The Text

The text that will be indexed in this example is [_Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety_](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565757/download?wrap=1 "medical error2.pdf")

\[PDF\]. You may wish to download and print it out at this time.

### The PNO List

Review the [PNO (page number order) list](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/pno-of-medical-error-prevention-patient-safety-index "Pno Of Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety Index") of the _Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety_ index_._ [The PNO list is also available in Word](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565881/download?wrap=1 "unit05mep_pno.doc")

. Using the PNO list, you can compare the entry term selection for a main heading or subheading of the index to its appearance in the text itself.

There are some things to notice about the PNO list.

-   All cross-references are listed at the beginning of the PNO list.

-   The language of the index reflects that of the text: for example, "death" (which is used in the text) instead of "mortality" (which is not used in the text). Another example is "root cause analysis," which is often referred to as "RCA" in other texts but not in this one. Since "RCA" is not used in this text, it does not appear in the index. If the index was very large, and a reader might be confused otherwise, it would be appropriate to insert "RCA. _See_ root cause analysis" even though that acronym does not appear in the text. But in this case, because the index is so small, it will be easy for a reader to locate "root cause analysis."
-   Due to the amount of information on each page, it is not always possible to avoid multiple subheadings (under the same main heading) listed with the same page reference. However, whenever possible, try to combine information in subheadings to avoid repeating the same page reference.

### The Index

Finally, here is the [index for _Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety_](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/index-for-medical-error-prevention-patient-safety "Index For Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety"). [A Word version of the index for _Medical Error Prevention: Patient Safety_](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565943/download?wrap=1 "unit05mep_index.doc")

is also provided. Notice that there are 118 entries for the nineteen-page text, resulting in an average of 6.2 entries per page. That is an appropriate amount for a moderately dense medical text.
