---
created: 2022-09-16T19:47:14 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/5-dot-6-indexing-project-1?module_item_id=89811903
author: 
---

# 5.6 Indexing Project 1: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 5 activities page

---
[Return to Module 5 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-5 "Module 5")

## 5.6 Indexing Project 1

Here is your first indexing assignment. [_West Nile Virus_](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565917/download?wrap=1 "westnilevirus.pdf")

\[PDF\] is a text used in continuing education for nursing. It is written in textbook style.

The specifications for the index are as follows:

-   Use letter-by-letter sorting.
-   Use lowercase for main headings except for proper nouns.
-   Do not index author citations.
-   Do index display material: use _t_ for table and _fig_ for illustrated figures.
-   Use an indented format for the index.
-   Page references are to be unsquashed.
-   Only one level of subheadings is to be used (no sub-subheadings).
-   Complete the indexing assignment using CINDEX, MACREX, or SKY. Select the one software that you would like to use for this assignment.
-   Submit your WNV index for grading by using the assignment interface.
-   Cross-references are to be formatted as shown in the example below:

main heading  
   subheading  
   subheading  
   _See also_ cross reference

main heading. _See_ main heading

### Parting Words before You Start Your Assignment

You may be nervous about completing your first index. Remember the first time you tried to ride a bicycle? You probably fell down a few times, but eventually you learned to master that skill. This is probably your first try at indexing a complete text, so just do your best and consider this to be your first "ride."

It may help to consider this a safe environment. You aren't going to be judged by an editor who may never give you another job but by a single individual, your instructor, who will be giving you a private evaluation. Furthermore, this index will be evaluated in terms of your developing indexing skills -- not as a judgment of your character or personal qualities. So approach this assignment not so much as a "test" but more as an opportunity to assess what you have learned and what you may need to work on. Good luck!

[Submit Project 1 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460028 "Indexing Project 1")
