# 
# Minister of Propaganda for the Decepticon Empire

[Minister of Propaganda for the Decepticon Empire](https://fierceawakening.tumblr.com/)
rage-filled cyborg protector of monsters
[image:76CF21DF-5F24-47D2-8C84-5C0649A4F8EB-449-00014E250654D8C4/avatar_537a159121f9_64.pnj.png] 
* I’m writing a submission instead of an ask because I have no idea how long I’ll ramble. I think you might have thoughts about this, but please don’t feel pressured to write a response or even post this. 
I’ve noticed this…trend, although I don’t think that’s the right word, of people using the concept of intersectionality to essentially tell people “if your experiences as a marginalized person aren’t intersectional, then they don’t matter.” Of course not in that language, but essentially…if you’re marginalized on one or a few axes, but privileged on some others, your experiences as a marginalized person don’t matter. We don’t want to hear them. You need to shut up and let other, more marginalized people speak. Yeah, it’s the “Oppression Olympics” we’ve grown to know and love, but it’s this incredibly insidious type that strips marginalized people of the right to so much as talk about the hurt they’ve experienced unless they acknowledge that they don’t have it “as bad” as other, more marginalized people lest they be accused of, God forbid, *centering themselves* or *taking up too much space*,like a horrible, self-centered liberal.  
Basically…the right to talk about your hurt has become a limited resource, and anyone who talks about their hurt who hasn’t met a certain quota of suffering is taking a platform away from another person who deserves it more. Every step of the way you have to grovel and qualify that yes, you know you’re privileged, because how dare you talk about the oppression you’ve faced as a trans person without acknowledging how good you have it compared to other trans people - that’s not very intersectional of you. You’re not allowed to want your experiences to be valued. You’re not allowed to want your insights to be valued. You’re not allowed to want a seat at the table. The activism that’s supposed to be for you *isn't*for you. You’re not allowed to want it to be for you. You’ve had your day. You’ve said enough. You have nothing else to say. 
& one of the problems, IMO, is that people throw around these phrases and terms like “amplifying marginalized voices,” “centering yourself,” “taking up too much space,” “talking over marginalized people,” “using your privilege as a platform,” without anyone knowing what that actually looks like. What responsibility *do* we have toward other marginalized people who are marginalized on different axes than us? What responsibility does, say, a marginalized celebrity have to use their platform for intersectionality, compared to a marginalized individual running a blog with a thousand, five hundred, one hundred followers? If you’re offered an interview to talk about your experiences as a marginalized person, should you decline it lest you take that opportunity away from someone more marginalized? If you take said interview, can you spend it talking about your experiences, or does that make you a bad ally and selfish? 
Another problem is that we use these terms, “marginalized” and “privileged,” as antonyms, and unless we’re talking about a specific instance of intersectional issues (i.e. cis gay people, white disabled people, etc.), we have no words for the massively complicated and messy web of factors at play in any given marginalized individual’s life - which honestly might not be an issue if people on this website especially stopped treating lived experiences and SJ terminology and theory as basically the same thing. 
Sure, maybe I’m ignorant and self-centered and too privileged to see that goddamn, there are way worse problems out there, and maybe it’s not at all that difficult to acknowledge your privilege every time you open your mouth, but it does get tiring to feel like you’re nothing more than a tool; that all you’re good for, all you’re here for is to use your privilege as a tool, and that your experiences and insights and your *pain*as a marginalized person aren’t cared about or valuable. Don’t expect anyone more oppressed than you to care about you. Don’t expect anyone more oppressed than you to value you. You’re not allowed to so much as *want* that. 
====
(above is a submission, this is my reply)
Absolutely. That and… if you feel pain, UNLESS you can somehow trace it to marginalization, you’re weak and need to suck it up.
Which is quite honestly fucked. Pain is a part of life, and I’m way more comfortable with people who say “there will always be some forms of suffering” than with people who seem to think there won’t, but… pain is different for everyone, and not everyone feels the approved pain over the approved things. And we should still care about them.
There’s a limit to how much energy we can put into other people, and it should be okay to say we’re running low on juice, but I really dislike the way that instead of saying “compassion fatigue imminent… *must nap and view cat memes*…” we say, like “can’t care about white men right now.”
**That’s not the actual problem.**Or if it is, you have some shit to sort out, tbfh.


		* 
* 

* 




 [December 18, 2020 (12:05 pm)](https://fierceawakening.tumblr.com/post/637860460456263680/im-writing-a-submission-instead-of-an-ask-because) 
 [12 notes](https://fierceawakening.tumblr.com/post/637860460456263680/im-writing-a-submission-instead-of-an-ask-because#notes) 
#z-archives/sj