# 


[image:35F574BD-10FC-4DF2-885F-C871DF6BAB7E-78497-0005B75DFC57C54C/d615972814fc778e155c7b5ee397720f4d394fec.pnj.jpg]
 [commanderfraya](https://commanderfraya.tumblr.com/post/107404007204)  
okay, i’m gonna talk about a thing.
by “thing”, i mean the pervasiveness of abusive and manipulative behavior in the social justice community, and specific ways to recognize that behavior.  there’s been a lot of great discussion lately on how to recognize emotional abuse tactics, especially in a familial context.  but it’s often difficult to apply to the social justice community, because A) it’s really easy to derail the discussion and B) i’ve found it’s easier both to gaslight and be gaslighted under the guise of “social justice” than pretty much any other abuse excuse.
i’ve listed specific scenarios in which social justice rhetoric may be applied to manipulation tactics, followed by warning signs that you may be in an abusive relationship/friendship and ways to tell the difference between calculated abuse and mental illness symptoms, rounding off with information on how to foster healthy relationship dynamics.
another note:  it helps to make sure you aren’t *perpetuating*these behaviors either.  i’ve ended up in toxic friendships with a myriad of people, and most of these people had no idea they were being manipulative.  i’ve been manipulative myself without recognizing the signs.
i did my best to keep the language as non-aggressive as possible.  the post is under a read more both because of length and because of content.  reblogs would be appreciated because this shit is pretty important, but i understand if you’d prefer to keep this content off your blog, so obviously there’s no looming obligation.
**content warning for manipulation and abuse tactics, discussion of gaslighting, and discussion of mental illness:**
-the manipulator may accuse of “tone policing” in situations that have nothing to do with righteous fury; if told their aggressive language is making you uncomfortable (in situations that again, have nothing to do with social justice) they will respond with more aggression and accusations that you’re censoring their anger
-the manipulator may create public callout posts about you rather than discussing your behavior in private.  said callout posts may also be full of out-of-context information designed to smear your character and make the manipulator a victim
-the manipulator may frequently imply (or all-out state) that your level of privilege in certain areas justifies their treatment, that systems of oppression automatically give you power over them so it’s fair for them to take it back
-the manipulator may bring up tragedies and social justice issues while asking for something they want, to create the subconscious link that saying no means not taking action and not helping the community
-the manipulator may bring up your past problematic behavior (even if you have since apologized and corrected said problematic behavior) to instill guilt and control over you, and to make the balance between you unequal.  “well, I never did this so I know I have a better grip on my personality and behavior than you”
-the manipulator may threaten to drop your friendship/relationship if you try to talk to them about your discomfort
-in that same vein, you talking to them about your discomfort may be met with accusations of abuse for a myriad of reasons (“I can’t help the way I act because I’m mentally ill, I was raised this way and do this to protect myself, you’re more privileged than I am so I can’t threaten you,” etc)
-the manipulator may speak to you publicly through social media / blog posts and ask for things you’ve either refused before or difficult things that sound reasonable out of context – your potential refusal makes you look like the bad guy and the manipulator look like a victim
-the manipulator may spend ample time “calling you out” and withholding affection or kindness until you do what they want, which both wears you down and puts you constantly on the defensive, unbalancing the relationship
-the manipulator may use a lack of adherence to promises made a long time ago as proof of your dishonesty, regardless of the surrounding circumstances.  they may also take this public to pressure you (see: the points of both asking for things in public and creating public callout posts)
-the manipulator may gaslight you into believing you said and did things that you didn’t do, including accusing you of being bigoted when you try to discuss discomfort that has nothing to do with systems of oppression or your respective privileges
-the manipulator may either excuse their behavior by explaining it with mental illness, or use your own mental illness to further gaslight you and distort your perception of reality
-the manipulator may make you believe that you deserve to be treated this way, either because of your past problematic behavior or your privilege
-the manipulator may convince you to limit your contact with your friends and family by telling you that being around problematic people is problematic in and of itself, and in doing so cut off ties and support networks, leaving you dependent on them
—-
all of that said, there are a few things that need to be made clear.
* these behaviors are not the end-all be-all of this type of abuse.  I’ve listed ones that I’ve either seen or experienced myself (or in some cases, both), using a manipulative behavior checklist as a guideline
* this is a discussion of one VERY SPECIFIC type of abusive relationship.  this post is in no way saying that non-privileged people shouldn’t call out privileged groups and individuals saying shitty things.  it is in no way saying that you shouldn’t discuss discomfort and upsetting things in your relationship (in fact, it’s saying the opposite).  it’s not saying that all mentally ill people are abusive, or that certain mental illness symptoms are inherently abusive.  and it’s definitely not saying that the social justice movement is abusive as a whole.  if your takeaway from this is “hell yeah fuck SJWs am I right???” then like.  uh.  stop.
* I’m saying this because whenever this type of abuse is discussed, the conversation is almost immediately derailed with these accusations.  I am not tone policing, perpetuating ableism, or encouraging systems of oppression.  I am certainly not denouncing social justice.  if you’re more concerned with these things than the behaviors I just described, pleasepleaseplease examine your own behavior to see if you’ve been manipulating people. (and if i really have said something fucked up and problematic then please let me know, ive tried to make my meanings as clear as possible but theres a lot here so).
* that is not passive aggression.  most of the social justice bloggers and speakers I’ve seen who participate in this behavior legitimately do not realize they are being manipulative.  a lot of these behaviors come from automatic defense mechanisms learned either from being systematically oppressed or from having an abusive upbringing.  but that doesn’t make them acceptable.
* mentally ill people can and do lash out, and it can be and often is part of their mental illness.  (I should know lmao I’m bipolar.)  discussion of how to differentiate between calculated abuse and mental illness symptoms is below
**how can I tell the difference between me being ableist and me being abused?**
it’s not easy to make the distinction between calculated abuse and mental illness symptoms.  when evaluating, consider the following:
* are you safe?  seriously, evaluate your safety first.  your safety should be your first priority.
* is this an isolated incident, or is it part of a pattern of behavior?  does that pattern of behavior fall into any manipulation or abuse warning signs?
* does the person only lash out at you?  who else do they lash out at?  are they in control of their behavior when they’re around other people?
there are a myriad of disorders and symptoms that can cause a person to lash out with anger or seemingly-irrational upset.  I can’t name them all or even a comprehensive amount, & all of these things manifest different ways with different people.  I know that during bad hypomanic episodes, I can sometimes turn into an imploding bomb of irritation and anger and hurtful words.
if the person can control themselves around everybody except you, and then excuses their behavior with their mental illness, they are being manipulative.
**what is the cycle of abuse and how does it matter here?**
we usually hear of the “cycle of abuse” when discussing domestic violence.  discussion of emotional abuse and manipulation, especially in friendships rather than relationships, is kind of swept under the rug.  that said, the cycle of abuse still applies here:
The Cycle of Abuse (taken directly from  [helpguide.org](https://href.li/?http://www.helpguide.org/articles/abuse/domestic-violence-and-abuse.htm) )
“Domestic abuse falls into a common pattern, or cycle of violence:
* **Abuse**– Your abusive partner lashes out with aggressive, belittling, or violent behavior. The abuse is a power play designed to show you “who is boss.”
* **Guilt** – After abusing you, your partner feels guilt, but not over what he’s done. He’s more worried about the possibility of being caught and facing consequences for his abusive behavior.
* **Excuses** – Your abuser rationalizes what he or she has done. The person may come up with a string of excuses or blame you for the abusive behavior—anything to avoid taking responsibility.
* **"Normal" behavior**– The abuser does everything he can to regain control and keep the victim in the relationship. He may act as if nothing has happened, or he may turn on the charm. This peaceful honeymoon phase may give the victim hope that the abuser has really changed this time.
* **Fantasy and planning** – Your abuser begins to fantasize about abusing you again. He spends a lot of time thinking about what you’ve done wrong and how he’ll make you pay. Then he makes a plan for turning the fantasy of abuse into reality.
* **Set-up**– Your abuser sets you up and puts his plan in motion, creating a situation where he can justify abusing you.
Your abuser’s apologies and loving gestures in between the episodes of abuse can make it difficult to leave. He may make you believe that you are the only person who can help him, that things will be different this time, and that he truly loves you. However, the dangers of staying are very real.”
I’m not a big fan of the default masculine to describe abusive behavior bc it assumes men are always the abuser and ladies and nb people are more than capable of participating, and the idea of always defaulting abusive behavior to he/him pronouns an issue of patriarchy, but that’s a whole other issue.  understanding the cycle of abuse is important to evaluating your relationships.
(edit: i initially referred to he/him pronouns as male pronouns when i shouldnt have my apologies for that)
since the situations listed cannot account for all of the unique situations in which one might experience manipulation/abuse, here are some gut feelings and warning signs that indicate you may be being manipulated:
* you experience great stress and/or fear around or talking to your friend/partner
* you avoid speaking about certain things to avoid conflict
* in the same light, you avoid discussing your own discomfort to avoid conflict
* you feel worthless and/or powerless
* you are constantly second-guessing your own experiences
* your friend/partner is controlling or jealous
* your friend/partner limits your relationships with other people
* your friend/partner is quick to anger
* you are always on the defensive
okay.
so now you have some guidelines for recognizing manipulative behavior in others, and for recognizing manipulative behavior in yourself.  how, then, can you foster healthy relationships?  (this is not in the context of forgiving potential abusers – you are under absolutely no obligation to improve a relationship with a manipulative person if you do not want to.  if you want to drop them like they’re hot, do so.  you know what’s best for you.  this is in the broader context of every familial, romantic, and platonic relationship you will forge over the course of your lifetime.)
directly from  [abuseandrelationships.org](https://href.li/?http://www.abuseandrelationships.org/Content/Behaviors/manipulation.html) :
**“The antidote to manipulation includes:**
* Responding in the context of the entire relationship, not just the moment
* Honoring feelings
* Understanding the difference between on the one hand, words and promises and on the other hand, something substantial and actual
* Understanding that consistency is not a moral imperative
* Having a healthy relationship to one’s self-interest— neither dominating or a doormat. This benefits everyone the most because it prevents dehumanizing distortions in relationships on all sides.
* Knowing that a sincere “no” usually strengthens any relationship worth keeping.
* Sometimes insisting people undo something they had no right to do in the first place.
* Understanding that maintaining a sense of integrity in the long run is far more important than any missed opportunity, inconvenience, or awkwardness in the moment.”
my own two cents on this:  healthy communication and mutual respect are the two most important aspects of a healthy relationship.  you need to foster an environment in which all parties can discuss issues without fear.  it should be an environment in which you are confident in the other person’s respect for you, and in which you respect them.  your conversations should not center on undermining each other, but on how to strengthen your bond and make your relationship beneficial for both of you.
you should also have set boundaries and understand each other’s ways of communicating / ways of receiving that communication.  different people need to discuss issues in different tones, contexts, etc.  for example, I’m prone to sensory overload and really cannot deal with people yelling/raising their voices.  meanwhile, my fiancée has avpd (avoidant personality disorder), so we have certain ways we approach certain topics, for the comfort and safety of all parties involved.
last but probably the most important:  all parties need to feel safe.  safety is an absolute priority.
I’m going to cut this off here because it’s getting long, but if anybody has anything to add or corrections to make, my ask and submit boxes are both open.  take care everybody


#z-archives/sj