# Fri, Dec 20, 2019	

I had a nasty nasty headache today, or at least the beginnings of one, due to the upper right side of my neck getting stuck in that one way again.

I think it's been coming on for a couple days, based on my difficulty getting small tasks done the last two couple nights, and generally based on my hyperfocus the last three days (or possibly due to the hyperfocus). 

I did get a bunch of stuff done later though.

### -1.Thank Bethany-
### -2.	Plan meals and assemble grocery list; consider freezer food. Check on if we need: Bread, salami, pre-prepared meals, bananas, chips, eggs, crackers-
### -3.	Make more shake-
### -4.	Make beer bread!!!-
### -5.	Run dishwasher-
### -6.	Clean out fridge incl meat and compost it-
### -7.	Check for CW FAQ-
### -8.	Invite L&E, E&A Hannukah; M free all days but 25th and 26th-
### -9.	look for activities online for michael present; plan stocking-
### -10.	Email folks re alternate plans writers group meeting-
### -11.	Look up phone battery-
### -12.	Close out proxy caller system-
### -13.	Email Sam-
### -14.	Look at Craigslist/eBay for iPad Air pricing (10 listings). $100-
### -15.	Clean out closet stuff-
### -16.	Visit academy of sciences gift shop for a keychain for Carol; gifts for M's stocking-
### -17.	buy Kindle gift card for Carol-
### -18.	Order and pick up food for tonight, 5pm-
### -19.	Wakelet autchat
### -20.	AutChat review, finish, post, schedule, notify them-
### -21.	AutChat other questions-
### -22.	Start plans to bolster in-person social skills and keep bolstering them-
### -23.	Udemy 2 videos-


#z-archives/journal/2019/12