# Fri, Apr 24, 2020
Pushing up on middle left chest upper rib where it was sore led to it going back in last night. Something is out on the right side today but it's very nice to have the left side be okay.

Very very slow to get going - trying to stop playing games didn't seem to help us, and in fact thinking about the fact that we were playing games seemed to stick us to it. 

1. ***11:30 go for 15-min walk (Gaia)***
2. Tell E&S autchat person not responded; wait to run until she does
3. Wash underwear
4. Listen Fiona Apple
5. ASL!
6. Drink a FULL glass of water
7. Lunch
8. Do nails (Aimee)
9. Set up Zoom calls next 2 weekends, read slack, post
10. Handle remaining email
11. Check if need to pay credit card or if already paid
12. Drink a glass of water
13. fix Mint issues
14. 3/23 cvs pharmacy reclassify 
15. on 1/18, look for 2 pharmacy charges: 17.82 and 17.88
16. those are in our claims but not in our airtable, and need to be added
17. 1/7 synaptent pharmacy reclassify in mint
18. Vacuum air purifier pre-filter
19. Start beans cooking
20. Check if classmate reimbursed me for Tuesday; nudge her if not
21. Put questions for future housemates re possibly-haunted house into document
22. Find 2 local moving companies and see if they're bookable
23. Drink another glass of water
24. Put topcoat on nails
25. Plan meals for coming week
26. Udemy course (E)
27. Snack
28. Drink a FULL glass of water
29. Beans handle
30. Sunrise: read event communications document
31. Sunrise: reread what was posted in slack
32. Sunrise: edit the intro
33. Applesauce
34. Mochi
35. Cashew rice
36. Cowboy caviar!!
37. 6pm go for a walk, snack/meds/social media
38. find the environment-shaping thoughts on C&B server and paste into file
39. Find info processing text on B&C and copy into Scriv
40. 8pm dinner and logistics meeting


#z-archives/1-journal