# Fri, Sep 18, 2020
Acetazolamide? 1/8 around 6, another 8th around 8

Clonazepam? n
(prev night)

Went to bed on time? y

Pain management for today?


Feeling very good/buoyant. My head does feel a bit increasingly stuffy, though, and I'm worried that maybe this is what happens right before it gets to be too much. [1:54pm: yes, it does feel like it's getting tight. also like I have to pee and can't.] Evening: got steadily worse, took some acetazolamide. in evening lay down and was able to set something in mid-lower-back into place that may have been related. or it may just be the acetazolamide draining that I'm noticing. 

Have been putting the thing in my back into place and it seems to help. 




[X] RH prep - gather items from list
[X] bday kelly
[X] print food vocab
[X] use online machzorim
[X] 10 min language
[X] 1000 snack: *
[X] de quervain's	
[X] Social media
[X] 1 hr misc to-do's
[X] log into maintenance portal and check on fan request
[X] email Shannon re fixing fan
[X] get clothes
[X] review how to put on tallit
[X] 1230 lunch: beef chz stuff, ?
[X] tell M postpone relax time; ask him to open bedroom vent and turn air filter up
[X] 11:00 or on finishing: 30 min planning meeting - check in on to-do's
[X] marbela story for Julie
[X] Start Focus
[X] Start sprints
[X] de quervain's
[X] [X] [X] [X] laundry
[X] Planning meet
[X] Check writing commitments
[ ] 1530 snack: shake?
[ ] ***4pm bass lesson
[ ] ***5pm set up ritual items, get dinner beef chz stuff, shake
[ ] ***6pm ASL - use laptop
[ ] ***730 SERVICES

[ ] ***cash app MT***
[ ] review ASL and teach a sign
[ ] Can we work in a walk? 

[ ] ***9:30pm relax time

#z-archives/1-journal