# Fri, Oct 15, 2021
Our 10-year wedding anniversary. Also, cut Lyrica to 1/2 last night. No apparent effects. 

Michael and I worked out a cake and will get dinner. We also have a therapy appointment today. I think he probably would have just blocked it out if I hadn't mentioned it. I'm automatically suppressing being angry, I think; I don't feel it. But I did want to do something mostly so I wouldn't have to tell our families we weren't doing anything. 

My dentist approved my going on to invisalign aligner #8, although I wasn't expecting her to because of my right incisor(?) not coming all the way down. If it doesn't work this time I'll definitely mention it though. 

Continuing to feel more comfortable with the glasses though not 100% yet. However, it was easy for me to go all the way through muldowney + callanetics + stretches this morning without stopping. 

Back still feels a bit out and a bit tense; I think that thing that goes out periodically is still out. My hope is that when it goes back in next time it'll stay, or at least stay longer. 

Therapy appointment yesterday with Pasut. I can't tell whether she believes me when I explain her mistaken assumptions or whether she's stopping because she's identified the thing she wants to force away. We'll see soon though, I think. And I'll bail if she starts targeting vulnerable things for elimination. 

Making progress on system work, I think. Zooey came downstairs with me and sat on the countertop while I did dishes. Later wandered off. I don't know where. 

Ana grabbed Maya's hands this morning to try to make her make the sign for "chocolate". Maya screamed. I said don't do that, don't force her, she won't want to do it if you force her (not an exact quote). Ana seemed a little displeased. I think by now Ana would know that Maya hates having her hands touched. 


#3-journal

