# Mon, Dec 23, 2019
Last night or this morning in bed my neck went back in! I pulled my head back and up in bed and it clunked in an unusual place and my incipient hangover feeling went away and I was full of energy. It was great! (Also: I'd cooked a lot yesterday, felt kind of ugh, and gotten tobacco smoke exposure in the Lyft on the way back before I could get my mask on, then took 1/2 tsp (1/4?) potassium and a lot of water before bed.)

It's feeling a bit achy again, possibly from having my arms forward for typing. I'm going to try typing with my arms back and up instead. 

Today I want to finish testing. I don' know if I'll be able to but I'm going to try. 

9:30am having that feeling where it feels like my ribs on the front right and back right are glued together again. Also, have been head stuffy and draining mucus.





___done___
Thank Julie and Rudi
Reply Mom; thank for M's foot hammock
***12:00 stop, plan Michael stocking trip, leave ***12:15
Sunset for M's stocking? Plan
return library book; pick up atenolol
Email Cormac
**test 7-digit phone#
**change highlighting to yellow**
[*include link to airtable record name so they can get pdfs!!! see if I can do that*]
***Can I delete the rows after 201, since they won't be filled in? and delete the later columns, too.
***Change Checkbox invalid data warning message***
*****Need to prevent checkbox from being deleted from cell*****
***add a Checkbox note that says use spacebar to set or unset boxes. if you accidentally backspace and delete a box, copy and paste a box from another cell [confirm this works
***add code to automatically share the sheets with the volunteer manager on creation, too!!***


#z-archives/journal/2019/12