# Thu, Nov 11, 2021
Cramps yesterday, and Clue says 4 days before period, so I took 3 ibuprofen once around 4pm and again at 10:45. Woke up this morning and felt good getting up and moving around right away. So I think there's some kind of inflammatory component going on wrt getting out of bed. 

That suggests I should try some non-period times with and without ibuprofen and determine whether it affects getting up and going. If so, I should probably see a doctor. 

Met with Pasut. talked about my concerns about judgmental parts. her focus is mostly on getting clients to recognize they're helpers. I clarified that specifically I already know that and don't want them atargeted, because they're there for a reason and when the reason is treated they go away. She recognized that although I'm not sure she won't try to get rid of them anyway. 

She wanted also to talk about anger and fairness and hurt and I guess it was all correct? social justice stuff came up (I brought it up and the way the community encourages but also creates it, and my consequent reservations about luxuriating in it/displaying it). 

I found stuff describing me in a book on shame, about ambivalent attachment as separate from disorganized attachment, where it's the mother connecting real strongly for projective narcissistic reasons and then dis connecting, and the kid trying as hard as they could to maintain the connection. 

I did have some heart pounding last night before bed, and again today at lunch. I think this is probably from lowering the atenolol. 

Read some climate change stuff and some political stuff about the midterms and I am experiencing some despair. 

Feeling disconnected and roiled up internally. 

#3-journal