# Thu, Oct 21, 2021
I feel awful. Low back pain back after holding Maya, even though it went away for a bit when I set it back int place. Have been trying to pop it back in but no luck. 

Sleepy. Trying to hold head correctly but no luck. Had semi-nightmare about Michael refurbishing an apartment in an abandoned building and he was super-proud of it but there was kind of no running water or the water was bad and everything was bad.

Weird headspace stuff last night. Visualization ability came back a while ago after remembering how I was scared of skeletons and would have deeply upsetting visual flashes of them. I liked the headspace stuff but it feels like having to rely on my mind's ability to fabricate things including fabricating people telling me contradictory things about reality. And I'm just really worried about that. And tired. and in pain.

Don't like skeleton in headspace and I know I imagined it there because of some fear of it showing up again and I remember the moment it happened but then. It seems kind of like lucid dreaming, where I can imagine anything happen but also my mind runs away with it? And then there's a loss of reality. 

I think I sleptt badly last night and am now having weird emotional feelings.

Holding my head actually correctly straight helps with the low back thing. Vision seems weirdly blurry and I want it to stop. Can see perfectly well phone but not computer, computer is hard and I feel like I'm falling asleep. 

Was angry yesterday at self for not switching tasks but then last night I remembered being just find with not switching tasks and remembered it positively and then this morning I hated CABS server because it was all tech bros and I think I am rotating between people? Like I destabilized some kind of controlled calm host and am just. Flppin around.

Tried to let someone else switch in and couldn't. They seemed panicked and banging on glass because of it. 


#3-journal