Last night Michael had drafted an announcement about the game and there were too many things wrong and I couldn't cope with all of them. Bringing in all his friends, cc'ing Allie for some reason, getting us a ton of exposure instead of taking it slowly and cautiously...I realized this was a way for him to gain face with his friends, not to connect with me. At least that's what I think is going on? It was just incredibly bad. and my reaction was a little inexplicable even to me. but it was still there. 

I feel very much like nothign I can do will help because we just had such different ideas about how it was going to work. It wasn't ready and he wanted to blow our entire testing pool at once. It was framed as an announcement and not a recruitment pitch. It felt deceptive to me. Unintentionally, but deceptive. 

I don't want to process it or do anythign with it. I was handed the option to criticize somethign in multiple ways that had been previously produced and handed the ability to be a wet blanket. and I don't want that, I don't want to be the Critical Meanie and I keep winding up in that spot and and it was just such a surprise from good testing procedures and from what I thought we were doing and we were suddenly just so disparate and it was YOU'RE NOT ENOUGH I NEED MY FRIENDS I WILL USE YOU AS A MEANS TO CONNECT WITH MY FRIENDS

I just feel stunningly fucking depressed. 

he was overpromising by involving me in it, and also I get to see how people respond to him beter tahn to me

Ana took all the corn I made and used it in a dish. Maybe because Michael put the wrong tape on it but it was a finished dish, not an ingredient - why did she assume it was hers? I was intensely upset and rattled.