# Emotional abuse cheatsheet
#z-archives/sj
 [https://autismserenity.tumblr.com/post/113457400046/the-emotional-abuse-cheat-sheet](https://autismserenity.tumblr.com/post/113457400046/the-emotional-abuse-cheat-sheet) 
 
# The Emotional Abuse Cheat Sheet

[The Emotional Abuse Cheat Sheet](https://autismserenity.tumblr.com/post/113457400046/the-emotional-abuse-cheat-sheet)

I have a hobby of identifying the tools that people use in emotional abuse. I finally collated them into one handy document a couple years ago. I’ll update it as and when I discover others. You are invited to reblog and add your own!
*Please note:* In extremely, extremely specific cases, a very few of these can be non-abusive, depending on the context. I’m thinking specifically of when people /who both know they’re just joking and are enjoying it/ tease each other. It could go under “name-calling”, below, but it’s a special exception where the subtext of “I like you and we’re having fun” overrides the actual words. You could also say that there are situations where you yell someone’s name if you need to find them in a hurry, which is also not itself abusive even though “yelling” is listed below.
*Those are the only two exceptions I can think of:* non-angry yelling, and mutually acceptable joking name-calling. If you are not good with subtext, I don’t recommend messing around with these.
*Other than that, here’s the story:*These are harmful acts, and many of us do them once in a while, or do them without intending to harm anyone, or do them thinking mistakenly that everyone involved is okay with it. I would say that doing them, /and taking responsibility for it and making amends and changing one’s behavior,/ is just plain human.
Doing them regularly (not necessarily in every conversation, but regularly when triggered/angry/upset/scared, for example) and refusing to acknowledge it or change… that’s when people cross my mental line into “abuser.” There’s always time to cross back.
Hopefully this list will help people recognize problematic behaviors of their own, as well as abuse they are experiencing, or have experienced, from themselves or others. (Yes, we can be abusive toward ourselves, and it’s kind of the worst. At least when someone else is abusing us, we’re probably not with them every second of every day, as we are with ourselves.)
Most importantly: these are not specific to romantic relationships. I’ve experienced them from bosses, from coworkers, from friends, from enemies, from family members. They’re universal. Keep an eye out. *You do not deserve abuse, from yourself or anyone else.*
Now for the tools:
** The Bait and Switch:* Changing a decision or agreement that has been made with others without consulting them. This is also related to *Unilateral Decision-Making*, below.
** Boundary Rejecting:* Refusing to accept or respect people’s boundaries - what they say is okay with them, what they say they are able or available to do, et cetera. Arguing with them extensively about it and/or insisting that their boundaries are unreasonable or meaningless.
** Changing the Rules/Changing the Story:*Rewriting history in order to cover up a mistake or to get one’s way (e.g. “I/you never said that!”); making up a story about what the other person’s motivations are and projecting it onto them (see also *Gaslighting*and *Projecting*, below).
** Filibustering:*Not letting anyone get a word in edgewise, particularly when trying to prove a point. Especially when it includes repeating the same points over and over while ignoring what anyone else has to say. See also *Repeating Rant* and *Stonewalling*, below.
** Gaslighting:*Denying someone’s reality; trying to convince them that what they are experiencing is not real. One quick way that people do this is to act as though everything is just an opinion – you will often see people using the word “feel” a lot when they’re doing this, and using very passive language, like, “I know you said you felt you couldn’t trust me anymore, after you felt so triggered that night.” Gaslighting is a classic abusive tactic. It’s named after a play (later a movie) called Gas Light. In Gas Light, an abusive husband psychologically tortures his wife by slowly turning the gas lights in their house down a tiny, tiny bit more each night, and tricking her into questioning her own reality.
One modern-day example is acknowledging that your child is autistic, but constantly denying that anything they do is an autistic thing and instead punishing or mocking them for it (see *Insults*); a more subtle variation on this is acknowledging that something is part of being autistic but telling them they just need to try harder. A more explicit version would be to simply completely deny that they were autistic. I’m using these examples because I often hear people talking about these exact experiences here on Tumblr.
** Guilt-Tripping:*This is a form of *Passing the Buck*, below: giving someone the entire blame for a situation. Usually guilt-tripping is a little more subtle: telling someone how very disappointed you are in them, how you thought they would do better, how you expect more from them, with the subtext being “you did something bad and I’m mad at you for it.”
Some parents use this, thinking that it’s a gentler way of punishing kids than yelling at them. It’s not, because the hopefully-unintended subtext is also: “My love and support are conditional, and you are failing to earn them.”
** Insults/Name-Calling:*Enough said?
** Making Crazy Stakes/Raising the Stakes:* It’s a ridiculous imaginary zero-sum power game. “If you’re not willing to do this small thing, then you get NOTHING. If you’re not willing to do everything that I say, down to this small level, then you lose EVERYTHING.” It’s taking it very quickly from the smallest detail to the biggest possible level to totally bewilder people and throw them off guard. If you can convince them, even briefly, to go with you into this insane world where that is at all a reasonable way to look at it, then of course they have to choose to do what you say.
** Passing the Buck:*Consistently refusing to see or take responsibility for one’s part in a situation; insisting that everything is someone else’s fault. Also related to projecting, because it can involve dumping all one’s responsibility in a situation on the other person - projecting every mistake or fault onto them in order to avoid “getting in trouble” or having to admit imperfection.
** Projecting:*Casting someone in an old role and dumping all the baggage from that relationship on them. Especially when refusing to allow them to be anyone else (like themselves). Like by pairing it with *Filibustering*!
** The Repeating Rant:*Repeating one’s problem with someone, or one’s argument or point, over and over and over. 
** The Shit Sandwich:*An especially advanced abusive move. This is often used to try to prevent people from setting boundaries and leaving the relationship. It combines telling the person how great you think they are, or how great you are together, then how wrong all their reasons and boundaries are, then reiterating how much you supposedly love them. There is often a hefty element of *Gaslighting* in here. 
** Spamming*: Giving someone an enormous amount of unsolicited information about why they are wrong to set boundaries with you. This is a form of emotional manipulation, related to *Boundary-Rejecting*and *The Shit Sandwich*, above. One common example is the ex who sends a 7,000-word email trying to pressure someone to get back together with them.
** Stonewalling:* Shutting someone down completely when they try to talk. Often by interrupting, but can also be by trotting out some particularly cruel statement that you know will silence them.
** Time Debting:*Not the rare unavoidable lateness, but consistently being late to hang out with friends, to work, to pick up kids, and/or other commitments. Or not showing up at all, without contacting them.
** Unilateral decision-making:* Fine by yourself, but a problem when it affects others who are supposed to have some say in what is going to happen - whether in a group of friends, a partnership, or a department at work.
(There’s also a more subtle version of this where someone /says/ that they’re making decisions as a team or listening to others, but where their words and actions all imply that they are in charge. Actions are more important than words. One sign of this is often that they become very patronizing or condescending when explaining how things work.)
** Yelling:*In anger, at someone. This is often a way of subconsciously trying to punish someone or get revenge on them for hurting/scaring us.  
Anything I’m missing?
 
 
 

#z-archives/sj