---
created: 2022-09-27T12:08:08 (UTC -07:00)
tags: [writing,maggie rambles,ofmd meta,long post]
source: https://avelera.tumblr.com/post/686704431510716416/the-curious-absence-of-masculine-pride-and
author: 
---

# The Curious Absence of Masculine Pride and...

> ## Excerpt
> The Curious Absence of  Masculine Pride and Competition : Diagnosing Why Male Characters Sometimes Feel OOC in Fics
For all the mockery that's been leveled at male writers fixating on the sexiness of...

---
**The Curious Absence of Masculine Pride and Competition : Diagnosing Why Male Characters Sometimes Feel OOC in Fics**

For all the mockery that’s been leveled at male writers fixating on the sexiness of female characters with lines like, “she titted boobily down the stairs,” (deriding how male authors have POV female characters thinking about their own boobs an absurd amount) I think it’s worth noting that female\* writers often do the same for male characters, just not for physical traits, but rather for emotional openness, humility, and vulnerability.

(\*There’s going to be a lot of sweeping generalizations in this essay, but the gender nomenclature is being used as shorthand and is intended inclusively. Likewise, any mention of “cultural norms” is from a US/Anglosphere perspective and not intended or expected to speak to all experiences.)

Men in female-written fanworks often cry a lot more than their canon counterparts. They’re emotionally available and vulnerable a lot more often, especially with their romantic partner. They’re more permissive about letting another person tell them what to do or letting someone else see them in an emotionally or physically vulnerable state.

This is _not_ a criticism of works that do this. Oftentimes, what fic is _specifically_ _addressing_ is a desire to see something that isn’t in canon, or isn’t in canon as much as the writer would like, and that often includes a character opening up in an emotionally vulnerable way, especially to their lover.

_But,_ if you’ve ever wondered why a male character in fic sometimes don’t feel _quite_ right, please feel free to read on. I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about this, mostly to address OOCness _in my own works_, and I wanted to share my thoughts with those who might have puzzled over this question as a reader or as a writer.

(Some fandoms mentioned below the cut: Our Flag Means Death, Captain America, and Punisher.)

Let’s start with a common scene: a male character has gone through an incredibly difficult time, fighting bad guys, losing loved ones, or going through a stressful experience. Maybe they’re falling in love with another character but don’t know if that love is reciprocated. Everything would be so much easier if they would just _talk_ about their internal conflict!

Then the man gets drunk. Finally, while inebriated and crying into his cups, he admits he’s in pain, or that he’s in love, or that he’s scared. This is an emotionally powerful moment that reveals a lot about the character and fandoms tend to eat that stuff up. Yet, when fanworks include this character, they include facts we _learned_ from that time they were drunk, but they don’t get the character drunk. The character just _says_ the same things.

**The vulnerability of that male character’s confession has been included in the fanwork but the _obstacles_ to him being vulnerable and the build-up of what it took for him to reach a point where he _could be_ vulnerable have been largely removed.**

I can give a few examples, like Steve in Captain America 1 going to get drunk to deal with the loss of Bucky, only to find he can’t which means he’s struggling to open up even with Peggy about what Bucky meant to him. Or the often derided need for war movies to put men into extreme scenarios just so they can hold their buddy as he dies. Women sometimes tease the emotional constipation of the need for a man to get drunk or be in an extreme situation before he can hug his male friends, but men I’ve spoken to like my partner find those moments more true and resonant than scenes common in fic, where male characters start weeping about their feelings the moment they’re asked. That’s because there _are_ a lot of social restrictions around showing vulnerability to other people, especially other men. And as cathartic as those moments might be on screen, they’re also _rare_. This adds to the power of the scene when an emotionally closed-off or intimidating action hero kind of guy suddenly opens up about the pain he’s in, but it’s not just a deliberate use of scarcity to make the moment resonate.

The thing is, you’d never know how rare it is for a male character to cry or open up about his feelings based on how often they do so in fic. To go back to Steve Rogers in the MCU as a character, I think the man gets maybe one scene per movie where he has a short, stilted dialogue with someone very close to him about the pain he feels or the fears he has? Those moments are heightened because they’re rare but they’re also kind of realistically rare. A lot of guys just don’t go “bleeding” all over the place. It’s kind of a huge problem societally, actually.

To go to another example, I’ve seen a _lot_ of fics for Our Flag Means Death predicting Season 2 and a _lot_ of them have Ed as an emotionally shattered mess because of Stede’s perceived abandonment. Now, OFMD is a very unique story in how often it _does_ allow its male characters to be vulnerable. Fic writers can point to moments _on screen_ of the characters crying and being vulnerable with each other, not the case with every fandom source material. _But_, I think what’s being overlooked is that in Ed’s “blanket fort” scene _and_ in the final shot of him sobbing in Stede’s bed, he is _alone_. He has _hidden himself_ rather than be seen crying in public. When he does come out of the cabin to sing about his feelings, he specifically notes how scary it is to be emotionally open like that _and_ Izzy as the voice of Masculine Restrictions _shuts him down_ because of it, showing that there was a reason in Ed’s mind that was _confirmed by the narrative_ for why he might want to hide those feelings and that vulnerability from the world. It’s not right, it’s not fair, it’s not the way things should be but that’s not the point. The reason Ed opening up was _powerful_ and a singular moment was _because_ it was _in spite_ of those societal restrictions and norms.

Men in general aren’t being constipated with their emotions and their emotional truth because they’re being deliberately difficult. They do it largely because there is a _lot_ of cultural pressure put on the need to do so and a _lot_ of social punishment leveled at those who cry in public or admit something hurt their feelings. This is where masculine pride comes in to, the need to be seen as strong is a huge social imperative thrown at men. The need to be the _best_ at what you do, to not show weakness, and to show constant strength and mastery are enormous burdens they’re expected to uphold.

On the one hand, it’s why moments where those restrictions shatter are such catnip to fic writers, but on the other, I think it should be noted that they’re catnip scenes because they’re _very rare_. Works written created by men spend a _lot_ of time building up to those moments and earning them, not letting a guy cry until his buddy dies in his arms, not letting him say what’s going on or that he feels weak unless he’s impaired with alcohol or in some other extreme situation like locked up in an elevator with another character until they finally admit what’s going on inside them.

Now, let’s get into the craft of writing for a second. One thing writers, especially newbie writers, struggle with is _obstacles_. Obstacles are what stand between your character and their goals. They can be emotional or physical or mental or symbolic. How a character _deals_ with obstacles is what makes us get to know them and get to _like_ them, it’s how we _learn_ about who they are as people. Stede and Ed from OFMD, or Captain America, or any other character you can think of would all approach a locked door in a _different way_. That locked door is an obstacle to what they want: what’s on the other side of the door. _How_ a character approaches the locked door tells us _who they are_. Do they shoot the doorknob? Bash through it with their shield? Test the knob and sigh comically when it’s locked? Pick the lock? Do they go around back and look for another way in? When the character gets _through_ the obstacle, the audience experiences a certain amount of catharsis and pleasure, if the creator has done their job right.

Now, masculine pride and social restrictions are an _obstacle_ to the characters getting what they want. A really delicious and tantalizing one for many, especially if you’re writing romance: what will it take to get this guy to admit he’s in love? Some fic writers though want to skip cracking open the hard outer shell and just go straight to the juicy vulnerable center. And that’s ok! Maybe you don’t _want_ to write an entire novel about Frank Castle, the Punisher, or any other macho tough-guy character getting worn down to the point he breaks down crying about the pain he’s in. Maybe you just want to write the scene where he sobs in the arms of his best friend about it, just go straight for the catharsis.

_But_, if you’re writing a longer work and you can’t put your finger on why the Punisher feels out of character, well, it’s because a tough guy character like that usually doesn’t want to open up. It’s gonna take some intricate rituals for him to be allowed to touch the skin of another man or a woman for that matter. These _obstacles_ to him opening up tell us more about the _character_ and they also serve as the meat on the story for the audience, who wants it to feel special when this guy finally does open up. If he was bleeding his innermost feelings and emotions all over the place, those moments wouldn’t feel as special, or realistic, or important. Fic writers who just want _more_ of that moment understandably write fics that just go straight for the pay-off, but the wait and the rarity of that moment is what makes the character, especially a male character, _feel_ in character and plays to the traits like being the strong, silent, stoic type that _attracted_ people to that character in the first place. Therefore, keeping or _including_ or simply being _mindful_ of those obstacles to a male character being emotionally vulnerable also plays to why people liked those characters in the first place and will make your story feel more authentic.

Aside from emotional vulnerability as something men avoid showing, there’s also male pride as a _motivator_. A guy who sets out to be the very best at something probably has a fair amount of masculine-typical _pride_ motivating him or as a trait the creator of that character keeps in mind while writing him.

Stede from Our Flag Means Death is a fairly effeminate man and that’s actually a pretty big plot point. It’s a plot point in how it makes him _lash out_ at those like Nigel Badminton who don’t take him seriously enough, and his wrestling with what it _means_ to be a man is a huge part of his emotional journey in the show. If he just wanted to go to sea, he could have run off and joined someone’s crew, but instead, he built a ship and styled himself as a captain, and worked as best as he could to be _worthy_ of the title of “Fearsome Pirate Captain”, often to hilarious results, but again those _obstacles_ to him being what he wants to endear him to us. But make no mistake, he _wants_ to be those things. He wants to be his own _version_ of the masculine ideal of a powerful leader, killing with kindness instead of weapons, but he still wants to _be one_.

Conversely, Ed in the show _wants_ to be soft but it’s a jealously guarded secret for him, because he _has_ succeeded in the masculine ideal of being a fearsome pirate captain, and felt incredible pressure to _hide_ that he wanted softness in his life. Even as he was trying to _overcome_ those masculine restrictions he was _intensely aware of them_.

**If one were to write these characters _without_ them being aware of masculine _desire_ to be a fearsome pirate captain and masculine _fears_ around being seen as wanting softness in their life, that makes them behave a certain way to _hide_ this about themselves, they’d be missing a huge chunk of what makes these characters tick.**

Again, I don’t want to tell people how to write fic. But for those this resonated for with an eye towards their own writing, keep in mind the qualities of masculine pride and competition when writing male characters, as something they’re at least aware of even if they’re not concerned about it within your particular story. These societal imperatives and obstacles are minefields in the lives of many men and are built-in as expectations for many male characters, especially those by male creators. To ignore these qualities and expectations will make the character somewhat OOC, it might make them behave differently in your story than they might in canon, if canon-realism is what you’re going for.

Consider talking to a man in your life about how another man would react to a certain situation, what it would take for them to be vulnerable, or how they’d react if another man saw them in a vulnerable situation. Cis male writers aren’t the only ones who get other genders wrong and while it doesn’t _have_ to be a consideration your fiction takes, it can help one write more realistic male characters to ask these questions and include these common emotional and societal barriers to vulnerability in your work.
