# 
I'm reading a book about enrichment for dogs and I'm struck by how much the advice parallels autistic advocacy, especially (but not exclusively) in things we say about autistic kids, parenting, and therapy. 

(Autistic kids are not dogs and a book about dog enrichment is not a book about how to parent humans, but many of the points below are ones that 




Some points from the opening chapters: 
 - dogs have interior experience, including thoughts, feelings, motivations, and intentions
 - physical health affects behavior in many non-obvious ways. for example, dogs might not be willing to do physical tricks due to joint pain; anxiety symptoms worsen with GI upset.
 - some dogs need foods that are very different from what other dogs need and this can affect their mental health, and this is sometimes underappreciated by people who have the ability to gravitate to a diet that works for them personally
 - apparent "good behavior" or "improvement" is sometimes trauma-induced compliance, and that is bad and harmful
 - it's important to prevent traumatic events from happening to your dog as much as you can
 - do not use a punishment-based approach to learning
 - uncontrollable traumatic events are really bad, especially repeated ones
 - nonconsensual exposure therapy to distressing stimuli is abusive
 - it's important to ensure dogs have agency and choice in how they use space, for example if they're terrified of thunderstorms they should be able to go back inside under their own power
 - it's important to ensure dogs have agency in interactions with humans. if you teach them that they have no choice but to approach someone they're uncomfortable with they may be aggressive. teach them it's okay to leave instead! and let them leave!
 - give them agency in play. let them choose which game to play or which toy to play with



My roommates' dog is clearly aware that I'm not a dog but he's spent the last six months patiently, effectively, and (mostly) gently teaching me how to play indoor chase better even though it takes me a long time to figure out basic concepts

He even adjusts his running speed for me

I hope someday I have the same level of patience for myself 




It even opens with an anecdote about a dog who became a nervous wreck and the owners couldn't figure out why until they tried turning off their new sonic pest control system. 

#z-archives/writing/nonfiction/post-ideas