# 
In my experience, it's rare for people who don't experience chronic pain or intense anxiety to understand what it's like, regardless of how it's explained. People also tend to hear "physical problem that causes anxiety" and mistakenly think "oh, this person has anxiety that makes them think they have a physical problem."
My suggestion is to emphasize the effects of symptoms on what you do, describe what you want them to do (or not do), and be prepared to calmly repeat yourself when they forget (or "forget").
I would personally downplay the anxiety and talk about visual disorientation and stress/exhaustion instead, just because the word "anxiety" can be a trigger word for people to go "oh, it's just anxiety, you just have to get past that." If your anxiety is visible enough that they're noticing it, you might have to address it. If that's the case I'd suggest describing it as a common experience caused by frequent visual disorientation, to help frame it as something that is caused by symptoms or is a normal response to having symptoms that are that bad.
It's worth keeping in mind that some people won't understand (or won't be willing to understand) no matter how clearly you explain it. Don't blame yourself for their unwillingness or inability to understand what your experiences are like. People can be surprisingly insensitive and callous sometimes; this isn't your fault.

Example of what I mean (this is something I've been working on for myself too): 

[Brief explanation] I have a vision disorder that causes chronic pain. It also makes a lot of normal activities like [driving / looking around / walking / etc] very disorienting sometimes.

[Optional metaphor to try to convey the experience in terms they can understand] Imagine that the world jerks slightly every time you move your eyes the tiniest bit and you have to reorient yourself every single time, and it never stops. It's stressful and very tiring.

[How this impacts you] That's why some situations are extra difficult for me, like [situation]. I may need extra time to recover, or I may have to decline to do other things as a result. 

[If your symptoms fluctuate] My symptoms fluctuate some and I don't always talk about how bad it is, so sometimes you might see me being able to do something, but those are good days, and if I can't do it, I can't do it. 

[Implications for them / what you want them to do] It's not about not wanting to do things with you, it's just that sometimes my symptoms prevent me from doing things. So if you ask me to do something and I can't do it, know that I still like you and want to spend time with you—I just can't always do it. [If there are alternate activities that would be easier for you, you can suggest them here.]

[Explanation of anxiety, if they notice you being anxious and you need to explain that it's not "just" anxiety and that pushing past it is bad] When people are in pain and visually disoriented, and then they have to do things that will make it even worse, it can cause a lot of anxiety, especially if they don't want to make other people feel bad or if they really want to do those things! Visual disorientation also directly causes anxiety just on its own. This is super-common for other people with this vision disorder, or with any disorder that's already difficult even on good days. If you see me being anxious, know that it's for a good reason! [If you want them to respond in some way when they see you being anxious, put that here]

[If they express interest in knowing more about how VH works, you can pull out a longer, more technical explanation and point them to some online resources.]