# Sat, Oct 31, 2020
Acetazolamide? n
DMSO? n
Clonazepam? n
(prev night)

Went to bed on time? y

Pain management for today? 

After yesterday's acetzolamide I feel better ache-wise but still kind of crashed mentally and physically. Much of it's election stress. 



~Health issues checkin~

### __Health - Oct 24 eval__

### ~Ribs out of place/thing that gets rotated sideways~ - dunno why this is happening. might be related to 2nd rib on that side going out of place. this seems to relate to that one nerve all down the side that I thought briefly was hip tendon pain. 

### ~First and second ribs~ - 

### ~IIH~ - put on hold since I didn't seem to need it for a while. seems to be an issue with inflammation blocking drainage? but any exercise seems to cause inflammation, suggesting there's a repeat re-injury going on. 

### ~Tackling inflammation~ - have been taking DMSO; will be looking up if a regular schedule could help. would like to see if past regular DMSO led to the few weeks of october where I needed less acetazolamide. 

### ~TOS trigger points~ - this seemed really helpful! it risks causing inflammation though. need a regular schedule for this too, and to do while watching TV or something so that I do a thorough job. 

### ~TOS exercises~ - looked these up, they require equipment ): maybe start some stretches while I do the trigger points. 

### ~Holding up facial muscles~ - try regular reminders throughout the day. also, will look for additional exercises to see if help. 

### ~Right elbow~ - added regular stretches and nerve glides to exercises. have not been doing often. 

### ~Thumbs/de quervain's~ - seems a bit better? keep doign exercises. can't write much yet. 

### ~Upper body exercise~ - frustrating! I'm really not sure what to do. I restarted from the lowest level but lost patience. maybe during my two-month break I should start doing this from scratch again. 

### ~Lower and other exercise~ - I think I can resume this now that I know it wasn't a hip tendon issue. If it acts up again, I should try the nerve massages and also glides.


[X] 7:45: check-in; dress or shower
[X] 8:00/8:15: walk Karl
[X] ***4pm Michael therapy and meal planning and Mint***
[X] 9:30/9:45: dailies
[X] snack, meds
[X] mint expenses
[X] Social media
[X] meal planning. Plan meals and assemble grocery list, including bananas
[X] defrost applesauce
[X] ***5pm endever***
[X] refill meds
[X] check prescriptions - when is next refill
[X] health checkins: copy last week's
[X] Bass notes and lesson notes print; plan practice for the week
[X] ***7pm relax
[X] ***8pm bedroom vent open, feed/walk Karl***
#z-archives/1-journal