# Sat, Jul 25, 2020
Acetazolamide? y, 1/8 at 1:45pm

Clonazepam? n
(prev night)

Went to bed on time? y

Pain management for today? regular

Woke up headachy and tight. Got worse after getting up despite doing a bunch of stuff that all helped a little. Then around 10 it spontaneously drained after I'd moved around a bunch. Standing up directly after that helped too. Self-massage and voltaren gel prior to it may have contributed. 

Having a more notably bad issue with heat sensitivity today. The last couple days I didn't notice it at all, even at 80. 

The persistent draining feeling in left sinus might be a leak? it's definitely producing a bunch of mucus.

could it be getting diverted into my sinuses and not going to the right sinus to trigger less csf? I don't know if that's how it works. 

I can definitely improve things with posture, and get it to the point we can start doing things, but not enough for doing things to be strongly rewarding, or at least it does' seem like it.

are pretty dehydrated from yesterday. 

definitely have been feeling a lot of weight at the bottom of my nasal sinuses (esp left one)

and have noticed big moment-to-moment changes, including while/after eating. 

when I fling myself forward I"m not sure the thing is gettin gout of the way as effectively as yesterday. it doesn't feel like it's moving. 

previously the lowering of pressure was a lot faster and more complete and now it just seems like a minor reduction. 

going to try 1/8 acetazolamide. 

[X] 1000 snack: snack bar
[X] 10 min language
	[X] nerve glides
	[X] de quervain's
[X] refill meds
[X] find small nails for hang picture; check if we need more picture hangers for other ones
[X] bring vacuum cleaner back upstairs 
[X] vacuum coway air filter, clean sensor, inlet, and outlet
[X] Social media
[X] 1230 lunch: *
[X] open vent slightly
[X] make more shake
[X] defrost beer bread
[X] 30 min planning meeting
[X] bring up big glass for water
[X] ***5pm endever ASL

#z-archives/1-journal