# Sat, Jul 18, 2020
Acetazolamide? n but probably need it

Clonazepam? n
(prev night)

Went to bed on time? y

Pain management for today? nerve glides, rehydration


Yesterday a whole Beyond Meat sausage with lunch, even though the final part felt too salty to finish up. Was ok in the afternoon but then evening after eating dinner (raisins, walnuts, rice with turkey broth) and looking down at phone on table for a while and then briefly sitting on dog couches got pressure headache. 

Currently I can feel it in my back right skull and in my sinuses. I took some nasalcrom this morning in case it would help and am slowly rehydrating. May 


[X] check on Alto refills
[X] find more nasalcrom
[X] [X] [X] [X] Laundry
[X] refill meds; don't halve melatonin
[X] check paypal and venmo - was I repaid for MT?
[X] mint expenses
[X] downstairs
	[X] plant green onions and garlic
	[X] roses for friend1 - clip and photo
	[X] roses for friend2 - clip and photo
	[X] get vogmask size
	[X] how salty are Beyond Meat?
	[X] how salty is peanut butter?
	[X] get leftovers for lunch
	[X] bring back up drill and long screws for bedframe crosspiece
[X] ***1pm install bed crosspiece
[X] make a list of foods in fridge and freezer to use up
[X] 1530 snack: shake?
[X] set up tody with Anna
[X] ***meal planning for next week
[X] trash out
[X] check mail
[X] check recyc/trash/compost
[X] de quervain's
[X] look up proxy caller transcript and read end where they say what to do
[X] Practice bass 15 min - arpeggios, TF
[X] de quervain's
	[X] make more shake
	[X] steam asparagus
	[X] okra
	[X] applesauce

#z-archives/1-journal