---
created: 2022-09-30T15:07:49 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/10-dot-2-types-formats-and-uses-of-controlled-vocabularies
author: 
---

# 10.2 Types, Formats, and Uses of Controlled Vocabularies: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 10 activities page

---
[Return to Module 10 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-10 "Module 10")

## 10.2 Types, Formats, and Uses of Controlled Vocabularies

There are four types of CVs: synonym rings, authority files, hierarchies (or taxonomies, the specific use of that term), and thesauri (singular: thesaurus).

Synonym rings are lists of words that are considered to have an equivalence relationship; that is, they have the same meaning in a specific context. An example might be: jeans = denims = levis = blue jeans.

Authority files are synonym rings for which one term in each ring has been chosen as the preferred term. The preferred term can then be used for tagging content.

Below is an example of an authority file presented alphabetically. The preferred term, "jeans," is in boldface. The entries for the nonpreferred terms, also called "entry" or "variant" terms, refer users to the preferred term, much like a "see reference" in an index.

blue jeans USE jeans  
denims USE jeans  
jeans USE FOR blue jeans, denims, levis  
levis USE jeans

Hierarchies or taxonomies are lists of terms in which each term has a hierarchical relationship to another term. That is, there are broader terms and narrower terms. An index can be considered a form of a hierarchy with headings as broader terms and subheadings as narrower terms.

==Broader and narrower terms can exhibit several different types of relationships, such as whole-part or concept-instance. "Cars" and "steering wheels" have a whole-part relationship, while "lakes" and "Michigan" have a concept-instance relationship. In any particular hierarchy, broader and narrower terms can exhibit any of the relationship types.

Here is a small hierarchy presented in indented format. The levels of indentation indicate the levels in the hierarchy. Variant terms are shown in brackets.

_Sample Hierarchy_

Total compensation  
    Compensation  
        Base salary \[salary\]  
        Deferred payments \[deferred compensation\]  
        Variable pay  
Benefits  
        401(k) plans  
        Health benefits  
             Dental plans  
             Disability insurance

From this, you can see that "Benefits" is a broader term than "Health benefits," which is a broader term than "Dental plans." Broader and narrower terms are said to have a parent-child relationship.

Finally, there are thesauri, in which the associative relationship is added to terms in a hierarchy. That is, some terms have associated or related terms (RTs). For example "sheets" might be related to "blankets." All of the specified related terms must also be preferred terms in the CV, but can come from any part of the CV. Related terms are generally reciprocal. That is, if term A has a related term B, then term B has related term A.

Sibling terms (children of the same parent) are assumed to be related, so are usually not included in an explicit RT relationship. An index that includes "see also" cross-references is essentially a type of thesaurus.

Here is a simple thesaurus in indented format. As in the hierarchy example, levels are shown by indents; related terms are indicated by the abbreviation RT.

_Sample Thesaurus (RT = related term)_

houses  
    bathrooms  
    bedrooms  
    dining rooms  
            chairs **RT** arm chairs  
            tables  
    great rooms **USE** living rooms  
    kitchens  
    living rooms **USE FOR** great rooms  
            arm chairs **RT** chairs

In addition to the indented format that displays the structure of a controlled vocabulary--as in the previous thesaurus example), CVs may also be presented in an alphabetical format. This lists each term separately, along with all of its relationships ("BT" stands for "broader term" and "NT" refers to narrower term). In this format, our sample thesaurus becomes the following.

_Sample Thesaurus (BT = broader term; NT = narrower term; RT = related term)_

<table summary=""><tbody><tr><th scope="row"><span>arm chairs<br>&nbsp;</span></th><td><span>BT living rooms<br>RT chairs</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row"><span>bathrooms</span></th><td><span>BT houses</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row"><span>bedrooms</span></th><td><span>BT houses</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row"><span>chairs<br>&nbsp;</span></th><td><span>BT dining rooms<br>RT arm chairs</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row"><span>dining rooms<br>&nbsp;</span></th><td><span>BT houses<br>NT chairs, tables</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row"><span>great rooms</span></th><td><span>USE living rooms</span></td></tr></tbody></table>

  
As you can see, this format provides exactly the same information as the hierarchical format, but makes it easier to find individual terms. At the same time it lengthens the presentation of the CV and also makes it more difficult to understand the overall structure of the CV.

Because of their structural differences, the two formats are generally used for different purposes. The hierarchical structure is often used as a browsing hierarchy on a website, while the alphabetical presentation may be more helpful for individuals doing content tagging.

Controlled vocabularies may be used in a number of ways to improve a user’s experience with finding information. For example, a synonym ring might be used in a search engine so that if you search for "dogs," the search engine would automatically expand your search to "dogs OR canines." That helps ensure that you get more of the relevant results.

Taxonomies and thesauri are both used to tag content for retrieval. They ensure consistency over time ("wirelesses" changing to "radios," for example) and enable inter-indexer consistency for large indexing projects. For a project that includes content tagging, the controlled vocabulary is created first, and then the specific content is tagged (indexed) with the appropriate preferred term or terms. Users can then browse the term hierarchy and find content connected to any of the terms in the vocabulary. Many large taxonomies are now used online for information retrieval from a database. You’ll learn more about that in the database indexing section coming up.

Taxonomies may be large or small. [The Getty Thesaurus of Geographic Names](http://www.getty.edu/research/conducting_research/vocabularies/tgn/), for instance, contains over 1,106,000 place names. On the other hand, a navigation taxonomy for a small corporate website might contain only several hundred terms. The size and number of levels depends on the specific context and coverage of the taxonomy.
