---
created: 2022-09-05T17:20:55 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-1-introduction-to-term-selection
author: 
---

# 3.1 Introduction to Term Selection: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.1 Introduction to Term Selection

_Adapted from "Term Selection: Putting Humpty Dumpty Together, At Last," by Sylvia Coates, 2003_

There are many aspects to learning how to index. The two main features of this learning process are (1) becoming familiar with the usual indexing conventions and (2) developing term selection skills. Becoming familiar with indexing conventions is a matter of simply committing the rules to memory, or knowing where to find them. But the second feature, learning term selection, is more of a challenge.

I, like other experienced indexers, have developed my own approach to term selection. I present it here, as a detailed step-by-step process. In no way do I present it as the only feasible approach to term selection, but only as one that has proven useful in my own indexing process.

So, for your consideration, I would like to offer these steps in the term selection process:

1.  Term selection begins with comprehension of the material.
2.  Once the material is understood, the information should be broken down into specific components by answering the "who," "what," "where," "why," "when," and "under what circumstances" questions. Term selection is based upon the answers to these questions, which henceforth will be referred to as the _information questions_.

The next two lecture topics will cover these steps in more detail.
