---
created: 2022-09-30T15:15:39 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/10-dot-6-a-last-word
author: 
---

# 10.6 A Last Word: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 10 activities page

---
[Return to Module 10 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-10 "Module 10")

## 10.6 A Last Word

Over the duration of this course, you have been introduced to the fundamentals of indexing. You have learned basic indexing terminology and specifications, and how to select terms to build a strong index structure of thematic relationships. You have been introduced to embedded indexing practices and have successfully completed three indexing projects. And you should now have enough information to decide if indexing is a career you'd like to pursue professionally.

To conclude this course, here are some indexing truisms:

-   With every indexing project, keep foremost in mind the needs of the reader and usability of the index.
    
-   Remember that editors have three simple needs: they want the index done correctly, with a minimum of fuss or problems, and on time!
    
-   The most proficient indexers are vigilant in continuing to learn their craft. They take every opportunity to develop their indexing skills, knowledge, and professionalism through reading, research, and available workshops.
    
    Peer Review is an online group that allows newer indexers to ask for volunteers to give them feedback on indexes they have written, whether for a client or for practice. You can join this group by sending an email to subscribe@index-peer-review.groups.io
    
    Caveat--you can take advantage of this opportunity to receive feedback on your work but keep in mind that the volunteer reviewers are not vetted for their indexing expertise.
    
-   Consider the importance of using the proper software and hardware tools, which will enable efficient and professionally completed indexing projects. The end result, in terms of repeat business from satisfied clients, will more than compensate for the initial investment in these tools.
    
-   Don't assume that this course has provided you with an exhaustive knowledge of indexing. No matter how experienced an indexer may be, his or her skills will continue to develop during every indexing project, because there is always more to learn.
