---
created: 2022-10-28T10:28:23 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house
author: a.
---

# Houses III: Canaan House - by a. - ghostwriting

> ## Excerpt
> Gideon the Ninth and Harrow the Ninth, the first two of a four-book series followed by the as-yet unreleased Nona and Alecto, each make heavy use of multiple genre registers—including science fiction, fantasy, murder mystery, horror, and Gothic romance—as well as a significant number of intertexts—the

---
_Gideon the Ninth_ and _Harrow the Ninth,_ the first two of a four-book series followed by the as-yet unreleased _Nona_ and _Alecto,_ each make heavy use of multiple genre registers—including science fiction, fantasy, murder mystery, horror, and Gothic romance—as well as a significant number of intertexts—the _Iliad, Homestuck,_ the Christian Bible, _Lolita,_ and _Annabel Lee,_ to name a few—in order to create something like a textual cacophany wherein about thirty different discursive axes are being prodded at once. Somehow, it works. Much of this discourse manages to converge on Canaan House; a sprawling, dilapidated, incredibly haunted and empty mansion and crucible of empire situated somewhere in Polynesia on an otherwise abandoned and uninhabitable Earth ten thousand years after a necromantic resurrection partially reversed the fallout from a nuclear extinction event. Its being situated in post-nuclear fallout Polynesia (in all likelihood, New Zealand/Aotearoa) draws on the imperialist legacy of twentieth century nuclear testing in the region situated alongside broader speculation around climate catastrophe, and tethers a discourse of ‘resurrecting’ a post-apocalyptic Earth to a similar literary discourse charted by Edgar Allan Poe and Vladimir Nabokov concerning the eroticism of dead girls and the optics of such erotics as a refusal of agency in death. Canaan House is a complex, multifaceted narrative construction with a vast plurality of potential interpretations that I cannot possibly cover exhaustively even in this behemoth of an essay. For greater ease of reading and also for the sake of my sanity, I have broken it down into three key points at which I feel the bulk of its discourse can be elucidated: as a Gothic house, as a hauntological dreamscape, and as a kingdom by the sea.

In reading it as a Gothic house, I attempt to consider how the ‘conventional’ haunted house of Gothic fiction encodes social configurations specific to particular bourgeois class relations and locates its horror within their destabilisation; I map this discourse onto Canaan House as we receive it in _Gideon the Ninth_ alongside a reading of Cytherea as the monster typical to the lesbian Gothic seduction narrative in order to elucidate how the text thinks about predation within particular gendered social relations under imperialism. I then go on to consider Canaan House in _Harrow the Ninth_ as a space which responds to a discourse of hauntology wherein a temporal disjuncture is generated by the haunting presence of the past within the now. Finally, I consider the presence of Edgar Allan Poe’s _Annabel Lee_ and Vladimir Nabokov’s _Lolita_ within the broader body of text and how such an intertextuality renders Canaan House a ‘kingdom by the sea’ as in Poe’s poem—from here, I consider the discourse developed first by Nabokov and then by Muir concerning the production of social conditions by which _Annabel Lee_ makes sense of itself, and how this relates to the deployment of the poem as giving voice to a particular interpretation of Alecto. All of this is eventually held together by the question of Canaan House as an epicentre of imperialism designed to fortify imperial social relations _and_ Canaan House as a resurrected corpse akin to the broader discourses of necromancy and the reversal or suspension of death at play in the text. 

Both _Gideon_ and _Harrow_ borrow heavily from Gothic genre conventions; the situating of Canaan House within a broader homage to Gothic discourse helps to make sense of a reading of the house as fundamentally Gothic, so it is worth spending time with the broader narrative mechanisms which make such an overlap possible. _Harrow_ especially finds significant common denominators with the Gothic destabilisation of narrative omniscience wherein the narrative maintains a certain degree of impermeability by building itself up through a set of limited, biased voices that will omit or overemphasise or obfuscate information depending on their own relationship to the story being told and the agents within it. The ‘actual’ events of the narrative matter far less than the process by which they are communicated and the possibilities raised by that which the narrative agents _fail_ to communicate; the reader, generally speaking, is not being asked to figure out the ‘truth’ as though it were a logic puzzle as much as they are expected to grapple with the metatextual work being done in the rendering of particular narrative voices in particular ways. 

Such examples of this might include the embedding of one narrator inside another as seen in _Wuthering Heights,_ or the use of documents (letters, diary entries, newspaper clippings, etc.) to patch together the narrative as in _Dracula,_ to say nothing of the vast corpus of Gothic literature written in the necessarily limited first person. In establishing the reader as a more active participant (the listener to whom the first-person voice is being addressed, or the reader of the documents), these techniques afford an intimacy within the community which survives to recount the story that the omniscient third can often lack. At the same time, however, that community is necessarily limited in its perspective and biased in its recollections, and such a technique is intended to disorient the reader and to highlight the deliberate limitations of this form of storytelling such that certain possibilities are left open even as the narrative agents are able to insist that the danger is passed. The horror is found in the emphasis placed on the reader as made participant in the world from which the communicant emerges and the subsequent failure on their part to communicate something from which we are held at a level removed due to the communicant’s function as a conduit, and the persistent sense of doubt and unease that such a removal engenders.

Of course, unreliable narrators and narratives that lack the intrusion of the omniscient perspective are not exclusive to the Gothic mode, yet their particular application within the genre in question—the technique of teasing out horror from confusion, of asking the reader to locate what is _not_ being said through holding us at a distance from the ‘real’ narrative, of the ‘actual’ events mattering less than the process by which the patchwork-style construction comes into being—might be similarly identified in _Harrow the Ninth._ The bulk of _Harrow_ is written in the epistolary first person which is only revealed to be as such around three-quarters of the way in; until this point, we as readers are misled into believing it to be in the second. As a result, the biases inflecting Gideon’s first-person narration (of which there are many) are initially occluded from us as we are kept from explicitly locating a source from which our second-person voice is stemming. Throughout _Harrow the Ninth,_ Harrow (as told to us through Gideon) remains at a significant distance from the main thrust of the narrative or the several thousand years’ worth of context making up the frankly deranged interpersonal relationships playing out around her, with the majority of the novel recounting a disjointed and confusing sequence of seemingly random events which only fall into place with the significant amount of explanation given in the last eighty or so pages. This is not a stylistic flaw—it is an effective way of communicating and roping the reader into the horror engendered by Harrow’s disorientation. 

Past this, we see Harrow’s reliance on letters left by her past self in order to make sense of the world of the present; these letters serve as the closest thing to an explanation of the time between the events of _Gideon_ and now, and tend to be obscure, underexplained (being themselves written in a voice that cannot by the logic of its own conceit explain itself in full), and received out of chronological order. The question of ‘why’ these letters are in play (or, indeed, why we are receiving an obviously incorrect redux of the first Canaan House narrative) is often irrelevant; even realising that Harrow lobotomised herself before the fact is revealed does little by way of alleviating the disorientation in the present. The purpose of the letters is less to build momentum around the lobotomy revelation as much as it is to immerse the reader in the means by which the narrative is navigated from Harrow’s perspective in as direct a manner as possible—in keeping with Gothic convention of malaise afforded through readerly intimacy.

The Gothic technique of events retroactively told through the paraphernalia acquired during their unfolding also makes an appearance in _Harrow;_ in the portion of the narrative taking place at Canaan House, we see both a set of notes left by the house’s previous occupants (as is also seen in _Gideon_) and a series of notes left by Wake detailing the final minutes of her life as she addresses figures who we later come to recognise as Augustine, Mercymorn, Gideon the First, and Pyrrha. I will talk in greater detail about the function performed by both sets of notes in the next section; my primary purpose in mentioning them here is to establish them as another site at which the revenant objects—predominantly epistolary—left behind long after the events to which they refer have passed make up the sole or primary method of decoding and piecing together the events in question, thus pushing _Harrow_ into a stylistic camp wherein it shares a measure of discursive space with the Gothic.

However, though _Harrow_ shares significant stylistic touchstones with the Gothic form, the primary site at which the influence of the genre can be felt is in the rendering of Canaan House in _Gideon the Ninth._ It appears to us as recognisably adjacent to the sort of house typical to the Gothic form both in its aesthetics and in its metatextual function; we might by extension read Gideon and Cytherea’s relationship undertaken within the parameters of the house as a development of a discourse concerning monstrous Gothic seduction, especially in keeping with the kind of lesbian inflection established in texts such as _Carmilla_ and its literary precursor, Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s _Christabel_. I intend less to make a claim about Muir’s intentions or deliberate workings—she writes in several genre registers at once, one of which is the Gothic, and I do not wish to overstate the influence of one register among many, or to imply the presence of an intertext where none exists—and more to overlay the critical frameworks by which the Gothic makes sense of itself onto the internal workings of _Gideon the Ninth_ in order to see what such an approach might reveal.

Before turning to the more significant discourses of the Gothic house and considering what their purpose might elucidate about Canaan House at the metatextual level, it is worth identifying a handful of initial aesthetic similarities. For one, the Gothic house is necessarily isolated, in part because it represents the codification of social mechanisms inscribed at the site of concentrated capital—ie. amongst the bourgeoisie—and in part in order to isolate its inhabitants and reinforce the ‘within-without’ function wherein the house is an enclosed space and every significant intrusion will alter the social fabric embedded within its process of enclosure. The ‘house narrative’ will tend to play out in large, sprawling houses and estates at a level geographically (and psychologically) removed from the sites at which such wealth is generated through labour exploitation; this will often mean a hostile or otherwise impenetrable surrounding landscape and a significant distance from any such site of settlement that might intrude on the events of the story. A similar isolating force is applied to Canaan House (though, I would note, the function of such an isolation has less to do with the Gothic genre and more to do with Muir making use of murder mystery conventions); the shuttles that might allow someone to leave are quickly removed from play, all lines of communication are barred, and the surrounding sea on an otherwise entirely abandoned and uninhabitable planet well fulfils the function of a hostile, uncrossable and therefore inescapable geographical surrounding.

Another point of commonality: the Gothic house often typifies a particular aesthetic—atavistic, aristocratic, grandiose, reminiscent of feudal relations or at least struggling to keep up with its contemporary developmental stage of capitalism—and presents such an aesthetic as being in a state of considerable decay, often in the interest of establishing the house and its inhabitants as sitting at the centre of a crisis of modernity wherein their traditions and conventions are unable to maintain themselves amidst new scientific advancements. Such an aesthetic is grounded in the class relations which lie at the heart of Gothic convention at least in the Western literary canon; the power of the ruling class both within the at-home economic domain and amidst the imperialist reaches of its national grounding is what enables the construction of what is essentially a ‘monument to wealth and beauty,’ as is the phrase used to describe Canaan House itself. The tension between splendour and decay crafts an affect of horror through the destabilising and apparent phasing out of the socioeconomic relations particular to the social organ of the house (ie. the somewhat anachronistic class relations and cultural expression positioned in tension with modernity—cf. for example _Rebecca, Dracula,_ or a more contemporary example, _Crimson Peak_) and the hauntological function of the past attempting to reiterate itself against the onslaught of the present.

All this is to say that a former grandiosity entering into a state of decay and debilitation in the Gothic house serves as a discursive signifier as far as questions of wealth acquisition and imperialism are concerned, and that such a signifier is reconstituted in the aesthetic rendering of Canaan House, which is itself a site of imperialist construction and consolidation. Our initial introduction to the house runs as follows:

> ‘They were on the enormous, metal-plated dock of what must have surely been the most impressive structure the First House had ever built. It might have been the most impressive structure anyone had ever built. Gideon didn’t have a lot to go on. Rearing up before them was a palace, a fortress, of white and shining stone. It spread out on the surface of the water like an island. **You couldn’t see over it and you could hardly see around it.** It lapped back in terraces of what must have once been fabulous gardens. **It rose up in gracious towers that hurt the eye with their slenderness and precision. It was a monument to wealth and beauty.**
> 
> Back in its day, at least, it would have been a monument to wealth and beauty. **In the present it was a castle that had been killed. Many of its white and shining towers had crumbled and fallen down in miserable chunks. Jungling overgrowth** rose from the sea and wrapped around the base of the building, both green slimes and thick vines. The gardens were grey, filmy canopies of **dead trees and plants. They had overtaken the windows, the balconies, the balustrades, and clung there and died**; they covered much of the frontage in a secretive mist of expired matter. Gold veins shone dully in the dirty white walls. The docking bay must have also been **elegant in its era,** a huge landing swath that could have held a hundred ships at a time; now ninety-two of the cradles were desolate and filthy. The metal was caked with salt from the water, salt that now assaulted Gideon’s nose: a thick, briny scent, overpowering and wild. **The whole place had the look of a picked-at body. But hot damn! What a beautiful corpse.’**
> 
> \[...\]
> 
> **‘Everything in that room was beautiful, and all had gone to seed. It wasn’t like back in the Ninth where unbeautiful things were now old and ruined to boot—the Ninth must have always been a corpse, and corpses putrefied.** The House of the First had been abandoned, and breathlessly waited to be used by someone other than time. The floors were of wood—where they weren’t of gold-shot marble, or a rainbow mosaic of tiles **gone leprous** with age and disrepair—and enormous twin staircases jutted up to the floor above, spread with **narrow, moth-eaten rugs**. Vines peeked through in number where the glass of the ceiling had cracked, spreading tendrils that had since gone grey and dry. The pillars that reached up to support the shining glass were **carpeted thickly with moss**, still alive, still radiant, all orange and green and brown. It obscured **old portraits** on the walls in spatters of black and tan. It hung atop **an old, dry fountain made of marble and glass, three tiers deep, a little bit of standing water still skulking in the bottom bowl.’**

The immediate impression formed here is one consistent with the Gothic house tradition; a ‘monument to wealth and beauty’ (with all the connotations of such a phrase as discussed above), with ‘gracious’ towers, ‘elegant in its era’ becomes ‘leprous,’ ‘miserable,’ ‘gone to seed’ such that the rugs must be ‘narrow’ and ‘moth-eaten,’ the portraits must be ‘obscured,’ and the fountain must be ‘old’ and ‘dry,’ with its remaining water ‘skulking.’ The appeals to splendour and wealth can only be made in collocation with an emphasis on dilapidation because the two convey a necessarily symbiotic discourse; in the Gothic house, the ephemerality of beauty (understood as a site and elegant material translation of concentrated wealth) is revealed through the onset of decay, and the decay is in turn the means by which the violence of such beauty is revealed and horror can be extracted. Within this process, there is a distinction drawn between the ‘putrefied’ state of somewhere that had ‘always been a corpse,’ and the ‘abandoned’ Canaan made beautiful by its state of gradual deterioration within which is encoded the impression of a former magnificence. 

The form of decay appealed to above is distinctly vegetal; the overgrowth has ‘overtaken’ the house ‘and clung there and died,’ leaving a ‘secretive mist’ of ‘expired matter’ over it, and the pillars are similarly ‘carpeted thickly with moss.’ This operates in tandem with the rendering of the house’s ‘death’ as a killing of sorts (‘it was a castle that had been killed’) and the subsequent appeals to corpsehood; it is a ‘picked-at body,’ a ‘beautiful corpse,’ ‘gone leprous’; the vegetation that ensnares and claims the house functions similarly to the process by which a corpse is broken down and made to rot. If we understand the house as an imperial epicentre then we might read its integration into the surrounding landscape as a sign of imperial decay writ small; similarly, we might consider the anthropomorphic language as signalling a relationship between beauty extrapolated at the site of death on the land and beauty extrapolated at the site of death on a person (a concept that I will return to later). That death is a site at which beauty—translated through anything from an aesthetic appeal to a site of worship to a straightforwardly necrophilic practice—can be established and appreciated and exploited and fetishised is a discourse threaded throughout Muir’s work, and Canaan House’s state of decomposition rendered akin to a killing and vegetal consumption figures it as no exception.

Even beyond the metatextual work outlined here, the notion of a large imperial house that holds space for a number of Gothic discourses being in effect a giant, half-decayed corpse is a heavily atmospheric setup for what goes on to be a story about a number of simultaneous hauntings; the house is haunted not only inasmuch as it is a house that happens to be inhabited by ghosts, but in that it itself is a being with a modicum of agency and a haunting presence inscribed on its own corpus.

A further point at which Canaan House draws on discourses relevant to the conventions of Gothic house literature might be identified in Muir’s use of spatiality. Just as the Gothic house has a very specific and very insular function in relation to its surroundings (hence the isolation, the sense of endlessness, the apparent impermeability), the interior of the house will often have specific enclosed spaces in which the pressures of the relevant horror (the monstrous presence, hauntology and disjointed time, etc.) are at their most acute. (Cf. for example—the tomb in _The Fall of the House of Usher,_ the West Wing in _Rebecca,_ Thornfield Hall’s attic in _Jane Eyre,_ or the room with the three brides in _Dracula_; Gothic secrets and Gothic hauntings are often localised even within the body of the Gothic house itself.) 

Basements, vaults, and other such specifically _underground_ constructions suture the Gothic function of the localised space to the sort of spatial horror which draws on Christian hermeneutics, wherein ‘down’ or ‘underneath’ signifies a proximity to Hell. This is made literal in Canaan House, wherein the facility under the main body of the house itself is established to be inhabited by ‘ghosts’ due to its proximity to the River (which, as we learn in _Harrow,_ is a specifically hellish space; or at the very least a transitive site between the waking world and the stoma, given as the equivalent to Hell). The underground space carries with it a sense of foreboding and a suggestion of lawlessness, but will also often lack the impetus towards deception identifiable in the uppermost body; if the house has something to hide, the basement is where it is likely to be found. At the same time, the underground space takes on the semiotic associations of a root system, wherein its presence, though hidden, is felt throughout the house and perhaps even necessary to the house’s continued existence; as the above-ground space of the house seeks to conceal that which lies below, the conspicuous presence of the hidden portion (and whatever site of horror production its existence and discovery entails) will insist on affecting that which lies on top of it.

The underground space is hidden both from the outside world and from the body of the house proper, creating an impression of secrecy about to be uncovered by implying a locatable truth that the upper body of the house seeks to hide or obfuscate. As far as Canaan House is concerned, the split between upper- and lower-ground occurs first at the aesthetic level. Whilst the upper ground takes on the form of aristocratic atavism passively subject to decay, we receive the facility as a distinctly utilitarian space, marked with a far more ‘scientific,’ somewhat sterile aesthetic absenting the sorts of proclivities that bring us the turrets and balconies and paintings which make up the house proper. Our first significant impression of the facility runs as follows:

> A six-sided tunnel lined with **dusty, perforated panels** stretched out before them. The ceiling was merely a grille that air coolers pumped through and the floor a grille with visible pressure pumps beneath, and **the lights were electric bulbs beneath luminous white plastic.** There were exposed pipes. The supporting archways contained bulky, square autodoor sidings. This **rhapsody of greys and sterile blacks** was interrupted over the nearest arch, where, twisting in the dry breeze of the climate cooler, hung a bundle of old bones. Ancient prayer wrappers were ringed around it, and **it was the only human, normal touch**.
> 
> \[...\]
> 
> The first room of Sanitiser stretched before them as a **huge, low-ceilinged, white-panelled maze of cubicles**: long steel tables beneath the upside-down metal mushrooms of spray heads, and narrow boxes a human could stand upright in. It was fully as big as the grand, destroyed hall of Canaan House. The lights whirred overhead. A panel on the wall blinked furiously as some mechanism in it tried to wake up—it looked like a screen—but eventually it decided better, went blank, and the room was resubmerged in shadow.

Other, similar renderings of the facility include its being a place that ‘ate sound’; its walls are ‘unadorned,’ its air is ‘dry,’ and its purpose is emphatically scientific. The facility is the most direct and immediate site of production in the house; it is the space at which Lyctorhood is (re)produced, to the point of being divided up into sections demarcating different stages of the process in question. If we understand Lyctorhood as a particular discourse of relations that bolster a broader socio-imperial fabric, the function of the ‘underneath’ making its presence felt in the ‘above’ space of the house finds itself reconstituted as the immediate production of such relations in the facility exerting a diffuse yet notable force on the social entrapments and enforcements of the house proper. (There is a reason, for example, that whilst the vast majority of Cytherea and Gideon’s relationship is conducted in the upper portion, the Avulsion trial in the facility itself is a key site at which the actual logics of the relationship are revealed, in terms both eroticised and violent.) In order to tie this understanding of the facility and its above-ground impact back to the discourses of Gothic house literature that make up this section, it is necessary to consider what it means for a Gothic house to (re)produce a particular set of relations or conditions of production in the first place, and how such a process translates itself cross-genre.

The essential function of the house in Gothic literature is one of demarcating that which can be held and sustained and reproduced within a particular social world and that which must be expelled in order for that social world to function. As I have written about in previous essays in this series, this makes the subgroup of ‘house literature’ within the horror genre fertile ground for interrogating how particular social bodies come to be consolidated and violently reinforced as part of the state’s reification of its economic base encoded in its social apparatus. The house as a physical being reflects the land on which it stands; as a figurehead of power and capital concentrated in the hands of the bourgeoisie, it shorthands the values of the nation to which it belongs and the state of the national body as a behemoth of—at least in the literature of the imperial core—capitalism in its imperialist outreach and its internal structural bastions alike.

In the conventional, straightforwardly Gothic novel, which takes place in the ‘real’ world responding to material conditions recognisable in our own historical social fabrics, the house stands in for forces which we would be expected to recognise and identify, and we locate the work within a certain discursive terrain off the back of such an identification. Due to the semiotic nature of a ‘house’ as a domestic and internally sustained space, this most often refers to our understanding of the (re)production of the family unit, which we in turn understand as a (re)production of whiteness. However, in a work of science fiction wherein genres are able to cross-pollinate—and, crucially, in a work that anchors its social fabric in selective and deliberate echoes of the logics of our own but ultimately presents a _different_ division of social labour and gendered/sexual logic to that with which we are familiar—the structures that the Gothic house needs to affirm and enforce would be expected to take on a different form. Speculative fiction by definition deals in societies at a remove from our own (other planets, alternate worlds with alternate social conditions; in the case of _Gideon the Ninth,_ worlds rebuilt ten thousand years on under the totalised control of one person after a catastrophic extinction event roughly contemporaneous to our own time) and should, if the writer seeks to be thorough, have a sense of divisions of social labour and constructions of gender, sexuality, and bodily sex not as ontologically innate and immediately reproduced in a setting with social conditions otherwise distinct from those shoring up bodes of imperialism in the ‘real’ world, but socially constructed and socially reinforced configurations that might make themselves felt under new conditions and with new language and mechanisms in a new fictional society. Herein lies the means by which Canaan House becomes a Gothic house operating not under our Gothic logics, but under the Gothic logics of its own world; it is the epicentre of the imperial nexus that shapes the momentum of empire driving the narrative, and the social organ that it seeks to consolidate and enforce is the one by which that imperialism becomes possible.

An attempt to map the semiotics of domesticity that come with the typical Gothic house onto Canaan House would be ineffective; not only is Canaan House _not_ a site at which domestic relations are reproduced, but the underlying gender-sexuality configurations acted out within such relations are not present in the form in which we would recognise them in this instance. At a base level, the ‘function’ performed by Canaan House is the production of Lyctorhood and the relational arrangements that need to be mobilised in order to make its realisation possible. It also seems to take on an auxiliary function as the crucible of the production of necromancy as a magic system with a scientific logic, as well as the production and consolidation of a mode of worship essentially neo-Catholic in aspect, though also carrying significant classical inflections. Its very name marks it as a promised land, imbuing its epicentral function with immense spiritual significance. Crucially, the processes taking place here are lynchpins of imperialist expansionism; Lyctorhood especially performs a dual function of sainthood and imperialist vanguard, being one of the many sites at which Muir draws upon the relationship between Christianity and Hellenism as dual functions of imperialism and fascism. It is also, necessarily, a site of exile (a fact which is heavily implied in _Gideon_ but only explicitly established and explained in _Harrow_), such that this production of imperialist social relations happens in a state of decay and a broader state of crisis. A crisis of relations in the house and the social configurations that it ensures is a key site for the production of Gothic horror.

This is a line of logic that identifies the type of social production around which Canaan House, if we are to read it as a Gothic house, operates; it is from here that we can identify the horror extracted from the reification of such a form of production and the broader discursive lines drawn in having it play out as it does. As I outlined above, the process of abstracting ‘real-world’ imperialist social relations onto fictionalised worlds that function under different social conditions but (in this case) hold similar social aims requires reconstructing the sorts of sexual and gendered norms which scaffold such an imperialist practice; as the domestic function of the conventional Gothic house reveals the sexual norms of its social anchoring and extracts its horror from their destabilisation (or, depending on the political orientation of the work, their fulfilment), the hegemonies of gender and sexuality present in Muir’s worldbuilding become clear through the production of social relations that Canaan House enfolds and enforces. The absence of homophobia and resultant lack of direct, one-to-one mapping of a collective social understanding of what constitutes an adherence to or a break from norms around gender and sexuality does not mean that such norms are absent, but that they are reconstituted elsewhere, such that eg. a character who we understand to be a butch lesbian with a conventionally masculine name can go unremarked upon whilst a comedically milquetoast heterosexual married couple are seen to experience a significant measure of social ostracisation due to the nature of their relationship transgressing a particular social norm which exists to fortify relations specific to the upper-class social formation. The base gender-adjacent logic of Muir’s worldbuilding—the site at which the norms of sexual and romantic relationships can be said to ‘matter,’ and at which there exists an identifiable relationship between social position and gendered norms—lies in her rendering of the necromancer-cavalier relationship as a) one of necessary subjugation that roughly conforms to the logics of chivalry, and b) one which fortifies the relations that we receive as integral to imperialist expansionism. 

To return to the question of a bifurcated Canaan House and the production of Lyctorhood in the facility versus the reification of abstracted gendered relations in the upper body: when the spatially singled-out Gothic space within the Gothic house is isolated and examined, it tends to represent a source of horror within which its covert presence elsewhere becomes embedded. For Canaan House, this horror is the cannibalistic process of Lyctorhood—crucially, the horror is not a corruption of the social relations but the nature of the relations themselves—whose pressures are exerted and reproduced at the above-ground level most clearly and immediately through Gideon and Cytherea; the fetishistic and predatory courtship conducted within the logics of chivalry ultimately moors itself in the (literally) underlying logics of Lyctorhood as the practice of cannibalism. All this is to say that if the logic of the Gothic house as a space enclosing a microcosmic social organ is transposed onto the speculative dimension of Muir’s work wherein the social organ in question takes on a different form due to its being accountable to alternate relations by which imperialism is mechanised, then we can expect the horror of the Gothic mode which is located at the site wherein the social organ becomes destabilised and deconstructed to reasonably be abstracted onto the relations that Canaan House shores up—ie. the necromancer-cavalier relationship—and its eventual end point that teleologically threads itself throughout such a process of shoring up via the ‘root’ function of the house’s underside—ie. Lyctorhood, a cannibalisation.

Sheridan le Fanu’s _Carmilla_ is a seminal text of lesbian Gothic seduction, enmeshing sexual anxieties that figured lesbianism as a form of predation against virginal white women with colonial projections of colonised and/or racialised women as wayward sexual voluptuaries (in le Fanu’s discourse, Irish women, though the Gothic monster emerging out of an imaginary which ultimately seeks to reiterate hegemony will often be a site of unspecific, composite alterity—_Carmilla_, for example, also contains notes of the antisemitism that inflects the broader vampire mythos). It has been speculated that le Fanu took inspiration from Coleridge’s _Christabel,_ which presents a narrative less developed at the site of colonial alterity but otherwise similar in its sexual hangups, wherein lesbianism is a sexually disruptive force and the Gothic monster conducts a predatory process of seduction. I cite _Carmilla_ and _Christabel_ not to assume a conscious intertextuality (the whole of this section is heavily speculative; I am not making a definitive claim around _Gideon_’s genre register as much as I am throwing particular critical frameworks at the book for fun and seeing what sticks) but to chart a convention of literary lesbian monstrous seduction from which Cytherea may be said to emerge. 

The lesbian Gothic seductress as we meet her in Coleridge or le Fanu seeks to destabilise domestic social relations by threatening the virginity (or a more expansively defined sexual purity) of her target and charting a path outside of reproductive heterosexuality into what is regarded as sexual deviancy; the seduction is a site of horror as we understand the power imbalance between the innocent (Laura, Christabel) and the deceptive instigator and interloper in the family home (Carmilla, Geraldine). With the defeat of Carmilla (_Christabel,_ left unfinished, remains unresolved) comes an apparent, though shaky, reconstitution of sexual and social norms. (It is noteworthy, too, that sexual predation and sexual deviancy are twinned with practices of consumption—here vampiric—in this body of literature; this is a concept to which Muir is significantly indebted, and to which I will turn in depth in the third section of this essay.)

Held up against this, the form of seduction conducted in _Gideon the Ninth_ lands somewhere between an outright subversion of the logics at hand and a playful gesture towards their absurdity. Gideon, whilst having nothing in common with the emphatic whiteness and demure femininity of Laura or Christabel, holds the same virginal naivety that makes such a process of seduction possible in the first place, and Cytherea adopts the same discursive overlap between seduction and consumption as Carmilla or Geraldine—the relationship, after all, is an eroticised reenactment of the chivalric nature of the necromancer/cavalier dynamic, one eventually geared towards cannibalism—wherein ‘predation’ takes on a double meaning both as the deceptive seduction of a teenager couched in heavily fetishistic language and as a literal relationship of predator to prey. 

The question of a deviancy that destabilises the ‘correct’ sexual order is a highly ambivalent one as far as Gideon and Cytherea are concerned—Cytherea’s seduction is, on the one hand, a disruption of a putatively ‘correct’ relationship between Gideon and Harrow, yet the definitive absence of ‘correctness’ as far as the latter relationship goes means that Cytherea intervenes not to disrupt the ‘normative’ dynamic between the two, but to facilitate it. As Cytherea’s seduction doubles as a ‘teaching’ of cavalierhood as a subject position, it becomes a conduit through which the nature of Gideon and Harrow’s relationship can alter such that Gideon’s suicide becomes possible. Such a configuration plays out most clearly in the reading of the Avulsion chapter as one that foreshadows the book’s ending; Gideon submits to a particularly brutal subjugation to Harrow via Cytherea’s coercion and ‘dies’ as a result of doing so. (Notably, Gideon’s shifted loyalties from Cytherea to Harrow are also signified here; where Harrow as the outlier loses her hair and clothes in the Avulsion trial, Cytherea as the outlier loses her hair and clothes at the very end.) The act of siphoning itself as we receive it has little to do with Gideon and Harrow; we see instead Gideon and _Cytherea_, in an interplay between eroticism (‘darling,’ ‘baby,’ etc.) and absolute submission to violence which makes plain the forces driving Cytherea’s seduction throughout the rest of the text. Rather than straightforwardly derailing the social forces that Canaan House seeks to contain and reinscribe, Cytherea’s presence in the narrative when read as taking up the discursive position of the Gothic monster ultimately reinforces them; and in so doing, reveals the note of horror integral to the Gothic form as lying not at the destabilisation of the social fabric, but within the violence of that social fabric itself.

Similarly, whilst the composite alterity of the Gothic monster to which I referred above causes the process of seduction to double as the invasion of ‘othered’ forces into a hegemonic social body, the ambiguity of Cytherea’s intervention finds itself reiterated through her equally ambiguous position as both perpetuator of and attempted traitor to imperialism; she is at once acting with intent to prevent the reproduction of an imperial vanguard and only able to operate within and perpetuate its social logics.[1](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-1) Her seduction is not arbitrary, but steeped in a desire to subjugate the next-closest thing she can get to God (ie. his daughter)—she describes her ultimate (heavily incoherent and inevitably unsuccessful) intentions as boiling down to the following:

> “He’ll sit out there beyond the system—trying to find out what’s happening—right where I need him to be. I’ll give the King Undying, the Necrolord Prime, the Resurrector, my lord and master front-row seats as I shatter his Houses, one by one, and find out how many of them it takes before he breaks and crosses over, before he sees what will come when I call ... and then I won’t have to do anything. It will be too late.”

The emphasis placed on a desire to rescind control from God (her ‘lord and master’) and instead subject him to the same sort of powerlessness to which she herself has been subjected is, though not all the way an ‘anti-imperialist’ position (she does, ultimately, act out of personal rather than sincerely insurgent motivations), at the very least an impetus towards disruption of the imperial social body; yet she re-enacts this desire at a site wherein such a subjugation _can_ take place, ie. with Gideon as the daughter open to such a subjugation precisely because Cytherea weaponises and operates within the very same dynamic that she seeks to undermine. Within the social logic of the book itself, Cytherea’s predation is structurally bolstered through the naturalised contours of the necromancer-cavalier relationship—to us approaching the text with our own understanding of structurally bolstered violences, we recognise both the racial dimension (that of a white woman fetishising a Māori teenage girl) and the gendered (that same fetishism relating itself specifically to lesbian masculinity; moreover, that we receive cavalierhood as a social position with associated gendered norms that loosely locate themselves within a masculinity that for us translates into or adjacent to butchness). These forms of violence along racial, gendered lines are, to us, recognisable signifiers of the means by which imperialism fortifies and reproduces itself, and their in-world social translation takes on the same form; Cytherea, read as a Gothic monster seducing and corrupting a Gothic heroine, galvanises the social mechanisms that Canaan House as a Gothic house exists in order to shore up, and so extracts horror not from derailing but from _refortifying_ those mechanisms and so revealing their essential violence in doing so.

To read Canaan House as a Gothic space means to consider its development on the Gothic discourse of houses as isolated sites of social enforcement relevant to their broader socioeconomic base, and to relate the relationships undertaken within the house back to the power dynamics which make such an enforcement possible. As I have attempted to demonstrate here, such a discourse helps to make sense of, in particular, Gideon and Cytherea’s relationship, as a device manufactured to reveal both the broader social logics in play and their functions as sites of violence both as internal mechanisms of subjugation and as dynamics essential to the reification of imperialism. However, understanding the house as a such a social bastion is only a fraction of a broader whole; Canaan House’s reappearance in _Harrow the Ninth_ locates itself far less within a discourse of the production of horror within the social organ and more as a detemporalised, hauntological dreamscape.

I use ‘hauntological’ in this section to refer to the question of the past as a set of social and cultural forces which intrude on on the fabric of the present and the process of reconstructing such a past as dependent on the sociocultural and linguistic tools available to those in the now, thus disappearing a consistent linearity in favour of time as an always-already; such a configuration creates the state of disjointedness, or time being ‘out of joint,’ as in Derrida’s cribbing of _Hamlet._[2](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-2) Put simply, a hauntological function is one in which the past perceptibly exerts a force on the present.

If the Canaan House of _Gideon the Ninth_ anchors itself in the conventions of the Gothic house as a body of social relations, _Harrow the Ninth_’s Canaan House instead becomes a detemporalised dreamscape which responds to the impetus of its inhabitants—first Harrow, and then Wake—and the site at which narratives become effectively overlaid with one another, making sense only in relation to each other. It retains its initial Gothic function at least at the aesthetic level—it is introduced as holding a ‘vast, corpsified atrium,’ a ‘rotting hall,’ and ‘cracked marble arches,’ all of which reproduce the impression given in the previous book. However, its aesthetic function is effectively invaded by _Harrow_’s treatment of the haunted house and the haunted mind as one and the same; the environment of Canaan House (now situated in a ‘bubble’ in the River, a liminal site filled with dead souls) takes the shape of the mindscape within which it is embedded—in this case, Harrow’s, with the invasive presence of Wake exerting a steadily more arresting force as the narrative develops.

It is through this that the Canaan House of _Harrow the Ninth_ takes on a function well illuminated by a hauntological reading—its disjointed time comes firstly from the fact that it appears to us as taking place concurrent to the events of _Gideon,_ yet in fact plays out within the broader timeframe of _Harrow,_ as explained here:

> “Time,” said Harrow urgently. “How does this track with _time_?”  
> “Based on my assumptions about spirit magic and the nature of consciousness,” said Abigail, “this—stage—only exists when you have limited or no conscious awareness. While you sleep, or while you have been knocked out, or otherwise disconnected from outside stimuli. I have not experienced any breaks in time—it’s seamless from this side. I imagine the simulation runs within your sleeping mind’s understanding of time, if somewhat contracted _and_ dilated ... How much time _has_ passed in the—er—real world?”  
> “Nine months.”

The invasive force of the past within the present that makes a hauntological reading meaningful is also crucially located in the fact that _Harrow the Ninth_’s Canaan House narrative only makes full sense in relation to the past narrative which we received in _Gideon_; the presence of Ortus, Dulcinea, the Sleeper, and the living Protesilaus, the absence of Gideon and Cytherea, the refrain of ‘this isn’t how it happens’ / ‘is this how it happens?’, and the ‘incorrect’ order of deaths all function as clues to the falseness of the narrative revealed by the _original_ narrative’s haunting presence. On top of this, the main narrative body of _Harrow the Ninth_ (that which takes place on the Mithraeum, narrated in the second/epistolary first person) gradually reveals another, earlier Canaan House narrative wherein Alfred and Cristabel’s joint suicide kickstarted the first set of ascensions. This ‘first’ Canaan House narrative roughly spans the following: the Resurrection itself and the consolidation of the empire, Alfred and Cristabel’s deaths, the subsequent ascensions of Augustine, Mercymorn, Gideon, Cassiopeia, Cyrus, Ulysses, and Cytherea, and the failed ascension of Anastasia, up to Alecto being ‘switched off’ and the arrival of the Resurrection Beasts causing Canaan House to be abandoned. Crucially, the whole of this narrative is reported, and much of it is only loosely inferred from its reverberations ten thousand years later; we know about Alfred and Cristabel in particular due to their repeated, insistent presence relayed via Augustine and Mercymorn throughout _Harrow the Ninth_, from Mercy’s willing participation in the threesome being lynchpinned by Augustine’s leverage of Cristabel to the repeated references to both sets of eyes (Mercy’s, especially, are persistently brought up—as are Cytherea’s in _Gideon,_ for much the same reason) as the most immediate, tangible reminders of the two dead people driving their key site of conflict for the last myriad. In relegating Alfred and Cristabel (and by extension the rest of the early set of disciples who did not survive to _Harrow_) to a space in which they simultaneously cannot ‘appear’ in the narrative but continue to exert a pressure significant enough for entire swathes of plot to hinge on their invocation, the ‘ghost-narrative’ of early Lyctorhood patched together from the outside at once reiterates the totality of Alfred and Cristabel’s being dead (a point of particular significance where the parallel between Mercy and Harrow is concerned) and the enduring weight of their narrative in the present day. (A similar configuration of characterisation-through-absence takes place around Loveday down to the invocation of eye colour as a reminder of both a haunting-style narrative endurance and the violence that such an endurance implies, as a character who becomes recognisable only through effectively reverse-engineering the logics of Cytherea’s actions and motivations.)

Within this setup, Canaan House begins to function as a space within which the three separate narratives of Lyctorhood—narrative A, that of Alfred and Cristabel’s suicide pact; narrative B, that of _Gideon;_ and narrative C, that of _Harrow_’s redux—are each made to haunt one another, and thus take on the function of temporal disjuncture essential to hauntology wherein none of the three narratives can be said to exist solely in their own set time. It becomes, effectively, an enclosed space that forces the repetition of a narrative such that discrepancies are easily identifiable and often punished. Such a configuration is easily established through the fact that the second set of inhabitants are expected to effectively retrace the footsteps of their predecessors, and both _Gideon_ and _Harrow_ are all but littered with reminders of those predecessors’ presences: in _Harrow,_ the body of Canaan House in relation to Lyctorhood is described as the following:

> “Below our feet. The laboratories. The original body of the building—a place steeped in the death of ages—the quietude of the last sacrifice … that is where Lyctorhood was begun, and that is where Lyctorhood was finished. You will see it. You will see where they threw down their tools and left the building like a palimpsest, unknowing, for you; where they left their blueprints to those who may yet have the strength of body and spirit to walk their path. This place was meant to be a palace, and they have left it as a road in the wilderness.”

The haunting presence of the ‘death of ages’—the ambiguous extinction event predating the Resurrection for which Canaan House was apparently present—is here twinned with the new haunting presence of its original occupants. Similarly, the notion of Canaan House as a ‘palimpsest’ calls to mind the reinscribing of a new narrative on top of a putatively effaced original, with the original retaining a haunting presence underneath, as is the relationship of the three sets of Canaan House narratives to one another. In addition to the obvious haunting presence of the _Gideon_ Canaan House narrative on which the _Harrow_ narrative has been overlaid, we begin to receive Ianthe and Harrow as alternate (arguably failed, arguably successful) versions of Mercy and Augustine who defected from the premeditated narrative established through Alfred and Cristabel; where Augustine ate his brother, Ianthe failed to eat her sister, and where both Cristabel and Gideon killed themselves in an arguably coercive impetus towards Lyctorhood, Harrow made the ‘choice to stop’ that evaded Mercy. A level of narrative ‘punishment’ takes place for such a defection—the most obvious being through Harrow, but Ianthe’s difficulties in consolidating her position within Lyctorhood proper might be traced back to her failure to re-perform the narrative whose presence retroactively looms over the whole of _Gideon._ A similar form of narrative punishment takes place in the _Harrow_ Canaan narrative_,_ wherein Judith, Palamedes, and Camilla all have to die violent ‘deaths’ at the hands of ‘the Sleeper’ because their presence in the space when their real-world counterparts are in fact still alive disrupts the consistency of the River bubble’s logic; the removal of anomalies is necessary to the coherent mobilisation of the narrative. (Coronabeth, too, undergoes a form of punishment to which I will turn in a moment.)

Similarly, Cytherea’s presence across both of the first two narratives—firstly as participant and then as attempted traitor—makes explicit the connecting of one to the other and the detemporalisation that takes place as such a process occurs; as Cytherea attempts to prevent the repeating of the narrative, she (at least where Gideon is concerned, though it is not insignificant that the final stage which eluded Ianthe until the very end was found in Cytherea’s laboratory) manages instead to facilitate it. Cytherea has ‘lived past the time when life loses meaning’; her stretching across both narratives to mould one into the other fulfils part of the disjuncture by which temporality becomes indistinct as the past and the present begin to swallow one another. Here, Canaan House is a container for such a process: a setting of boundaries not along the traditional function of social containment and social expulsion as was explored in the previous section, but the boundaries within which the repeating, consuming narrative is allowed to be repeated or disrupted or breached. There is a sense that the house is inescapable—so, too, are the social logics that it seeks to reinforce. All three Canaan House narratives eventually converge on the same thing—the necessity of situating oneself within the imperial social organ and the near-impossibility of trying to escape.

The repeated appearance of the epistolary in material form in _Harrow_—ie. the notes left around Canaan House—twins itself with _Harrow_’s own immediate epistolary voice (ie. Gideon’s) in order to further emphasise the connective tissue between the present and the past. _Harrow the Ninth_ is a novel concerned with the process of preservation and the construction of the past based on what gets left behind; from the notes left in the River-version of Canaan House to poetry as ‘one of the most beautiful shadows a civilisation can cast across time’ and the use of a literary canon contemporary to us as readers in order to communicate John Gaius’ relationship with Alecto to the Blood of Eden naming convention as ‘dead words—a human chain reaching back ten thousand years,’ _Harrow_’s hauntological dimension has as much to do with the effort to preserve and make sense of the present through the past as it does with the inevitability of the past mapping itself onto the now. Much of Muir’s discursive work lands around the question of the line drawn between an act of preservation and an act of necromancy—the limitations of a determination to keep someone or something alive and the simultaneous effacing of death as a finality and suffusing of death into every strata of a social model in transgressing the nebulous limits of such a process. _Harrow_ is an immensely hauntological novel—both the present and the past break down as the suspension of death collapses the meaningful linearity of time—and this hauntology is anchored particularly within the narrative that Canaan House can contain and reproduce.

Yet the Canaan House of _Harrow the Ninth_ is not only a repository for a discourse of hauntology—it is also a dreamscape, removed from its ‘proper’ time and place and made to respond instead to the conditions present in the mind, it having been called into being in the first place out of the need for Harrow to craft a false memory in the wake of her self-administered lobotomy. The stage upon which Harrow’s redux of _Gideon_’s Canaan House narrative plays out is subject to alterations not only according to forces exerted by Harrow herself, but according to Wake’s invasive presence; we see this as early on as the introduction of ‘the Sleeper’ or the presence of notes addressed to those most involved in the circumstances that caused her death, yet it becomes clearest in the severe weather patterns that eventually become enormous womb viscera presumably signalling her traumatic pregnancy, mimicking the womb of the Virgin Mary in Christian theology. Through what is effectively a replay of the end of Wake’s life from the viscera to the paraphernalia of self-impregnation to the notes left to Augustine, Mercymorn, Gideon the First, and Pyrrha, we find another site at which the past viciously intrudes on the present, first introduced here:

> The snow had settled; the ice, in pinkish, crackling drifts, had formed miniature fernlike cherry-shaded patterns on all the ancient glass. **In their wake, great slithering, pulsing tubes had worked themselves up through the cracks in the floorboards, or wound down among the frozen weeds. The tubes were a fresh, clear pink, with redder veins beneath the translucent topmost layer. At intervals, black clusters swam within, this way and that, like frightened fish.** When one cut them, they bled a gush of filthy water, then the wound closed up as one watched. The cold had deepened to the point where a few hours would freeze this substance solid, a sort of brownish cloud with a misty, gelid surface.  
> The tubes were not homogenous: every so often they would pouch out, or fall in dramatic drapes along the wall or from the ceiling, with whitish, pearl-bubbled globules secreted away within their flesh. The surviving inhabitants of Canaan House were united—even Harrow—in agreement with Dulcie Septimus’s pronouncement that it was “absolutely ghastly, bordering on shitty.”

From here, paraphernalia pertaining to a self-induced pregnancy begins to emerge; as do skeletons from the Ninth House, which could refer either to Harrow’s minimal exertion of control over the dreamscape or to the fate befalling Wake _after_ her death.

> The rooms of Canaan House were thick and silent with falling snow: red with new blood, and brown or black with old. Ductile, organic tubes and lymphatic nodes pulsed pinkly everywhere: in the corners, bubbling up along the doorframes and the pillars. Outside the windows, stretched webs of organ had wrapped themselves around the tower like nets of sticky venous spiderweb.  
> That was wretched; but Harrowhark was more interested in the strange garbage littering the snow and the rotting furniture and the underfloor squish of tube and fossa. **Pipettes, again; broken glass-fronted containers filled with dark fluid, mysterious lumps floating suspended within; and shattered skeletons, lying in the slithering mass of tubes or on mountains of what looked to be capsules or pills. At first her brain skimmed over the skeletons—it was Canaan House, ergo, there were skeletons—but then the familiarity dawned on her: some of the skeletons were not wearing First House sashes or raiment, but bearing Drearburh tools**.

To return, briefly, to the discourse wherein Canaan House takes on the function of the Gothic house—the contained space of the Gothic house within a narrative can take on a function akin to both a womb and a tomb, in which it absorbs its subjects taken from a tangible, temporalised material existence into the contained timespace wherein they either die (hence the tomb) or undergo a fundamental ‘rebirth’ (hence the womb). In situating it as a site of simultaneous birth and death, the totality of the house (and the logics encoded within it) in relation to its subjects/inhabitants emerges to supercede even so much as a sense of linear temporality. For Wake, the womb/tomb is literal—she, being literally dead in the ‘real’ world, finds herself encased within a tomb in Harrow’s bubble, and in emerging reproduces onto the space the viscera of a womb, magnified to horrifying proportions and made to fully drive home the mass of trauma underpinning the dreamscape’s reenactment of the end of her life. For the revenants called back to the dreamscape Canaan House, exiting it here becomes akin to a process of exiting the womb—suggesting, rather than straightforward death, access to an as-yet unrevealed site ‘beyond’ the River to which Abigail refers near the end of _Harrow._[3](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-3)

Another such expulsion from the womb takes place with Coronabeth; here, it is an expulsion akin to that of Palamedes, Camilla, and Judith, wherein the inability to call their revenants into the bubble marks them as anomalies for removal. However, unlike the latter three who are disposed of by Wake, Corona is pushed off of the edge of the docking terrace by Silas, who then himself follows suit. Here, Corona’s exit—a ‘sudden gush of watery blood’ through which both she and Silas leave, being one that allows them to literally _leave_ the space of Canaan House rather than having to ‘die’ within it—is figured both as punishment for her survival of the events of _Gideon_ and a rebirth of sorts wherein she can abandon the logics of the Canaan House narrative reproduction that figured her as effectively parallel to Alfred in favour of her defection to insurgent forces.

Past this function as a site of rebirth, the womb viscera becomes another means by which the past and the present effectively collapse in on one another—along with Wake’s notes, the growing presence of viscera and pregnancy paraphernalia effectively re-performs Gideon’s birth concurrent to her gradually increasing momentum and presence in the narrative in the leadup to her eventual full emergence. Similarly, the study belonging to Gideon the First and Pyrrha remaining untouched by the otherwise suffocating entrails, as well as the emergence of Pyrrha’s name as an anagram on a sign otherwise wholly obscured by viscera (“The only letters visible beneath the sluggish, pulsing viscera were a _**Y**_, the _**PR**_ that had once heralded PRESERVATION, the _**AR**_ once belonging to MORTUARY, and an almost-entirely obscured T**H**REE.”—bold emphasis mine), each re-perform the past through what they are able to suggest about the relationship between the three parties in question; that Wake cared enough for both Gideon and Pyrrha for the violence underwriting her pregnancy trauma reenactment not to touch the space associated with them, and that Pyrrha, with her name tethered to that particular womb, holds an unfulfilled desire for parenthood and a belief that she had been the one to impregnate Wake. It remains one among many places in which the dreamscape Canaan House is subject to pressures which remove it from any sense of linear temporality in favour of the disjuncture that forces the past to confront the present.

The broad strokes of this section have hopefully demonstrated that Canaan House, by _Harrow the Ninth,_ matters less as a signifier of boundaries around particular social relations (though this dimension is always active in the background) and more as a solid boundary established around a temporal disruption, wherein narratives taking place in the same spatial dimensions are forces out of the parameters of their own strictly linear time and made instead to encounter and haunt and respond to one another in a discourse of hauntology. Such a discourse opens up avenues of further interrogation geared towards the question of cycle-breaking and the broader presence of death and its being withheld through necromancy as a temporally disruptive force, both of which Muir has already taken up partway and I imagine will go on to develop further. Past this, the final site at which Canaan House merits significant interrogation is in its being situated within the broader intertextual presence of Poe’s _Annabel Lee._

Edgar Allan Poe’s _[Annabel Lee](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/44885/annabel-lee),_ published in 1849, tells the story of an unnamed speaker residing in a ‘kingdom by the sea’ with a ‘maiden’ of the same name, until a ‘wind’ apparently sent by jealous angels causes her to fall sick and die. Despite Annabel’s death, the speaker insists that  

> neither the angels in Heaven above  
>   Nor the demons down under the sea  
> Can ever dissever my soul from the soul  
>   Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;
> 
> For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams  
>   Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;  
> And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes  
>   Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;  
> And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side  
>   Of my darling—my darling—my life and my bride,  
>   In her sepulchre there by the sea—  
>   In her tomb by the sounding sea.

It remains a fixture in the literary stratosphere in part due to its position within something of an informal canon internal to Poe’s work: his repeated preoccupation with dead girls. In _The Philosophy of Composition,_ Poe wrote that the 'most poetical topic in the world' is 'the death of a beautiful woman,' ideally delivered from '\[the lips\] of a bereaved lover.' Such an apparently sublime aesthetic emerges not only in _Annabel Lee,_ but in _The Raven_ (being itself the topic of Poe's essay), _The Sleeper_ (possibly referenced by Muir in having Wake be referred to by the same name in _Harrow the Ninth_; certainly it shares some discursive overlaps with Alecto), _The Fall of the House of Usher, Ulalume,_ _Ligeia_, and _Lenore_, among others. Even the works on this list which lack the voice of the bereaved lover feature a dead woman at their centre and establish a site of aesthetic coherence scaffolded around her death. 

Scholars of Poe's work have speculated that such a fixation on fictional dead women stemmed from the loss of women close to him in the real world, including his mother Eliza Poe and his wife Virginia. Virginia died of tuberculosis at age 24, and _Annabel Lee_ in particular has been widely read as a text that takes up Poe's grief in the wake of her death.[4](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-4) Despite the poem's claim that 'I was a child and she was a child,' she met and married Edgar Allan Poe, her first cousin, at 13, when he himself was 27.

That _Annabel Lee_ is an intertext for _Harrow the Ninth_ is difficult to miss; the poem is invoked as an identifier for the then-unnamed Body, or the girl in the tomb whom we later come to know as Alecto (only after we have met with her as Annabel, as Annie Laurie, or as a monster; the 'abyss of the First,' the 'death of the Lord,' etc.) The _Annabel Lee_ refrain is first introduced in the following passage:

> Your voice dredged up from your brain, which dredged up from your heart, which dredged up from the oily, filth-stricken depths of your soul, and you said: “God, _who did you bury?_” Teacher worried his temple with his thumb, and then worried his other temple with his other thumb. He took a biscuit and dipped it into his cooling tea, then ate it, then swirled the tea around in the cup and set it down again.
> 
> “I buried a monster,” he said.
> 
> From the glare of the plex window, beside some perfectly ordinary white twill curtains, the buried monster turned herself so that she was lit in the light of the undead stars. The curve of her cheek—the thick, black lashes that fringed her golden eyes—the thumbprint divot that lay pressed like a kiss within the bow of her lip—you had not known you were shaking until God himself reached out to still your wrist, so that you mightn’t spill your tea over your knees. He unhelpfully passed you another biscuit.
> 
> “Eat up, there’s nothing to you,” he said gently. “Have two, get some fat reserves. Do you like poetry, Harrowhark?”
> 
> “I have never been a fan,” you said fervently.
> 
> “Poetry is one of the most beautiful shadows a civilisation can cast across time,” he said. “Go on ... eat up, they’re good for you. Here, I’m going to pretend to read this one off my tablet, when in fact it’s been with me for over ten thousand years. Here’s my favourite part...”
> 
> That night, the Body consented to embrace you. You so nearly felt those long arms wrap around your neck, your middle. You were so close to feeling that press of graceful forehead to yours, the long, lean, dead body chilling yours to the shivering point, as you all but perceived one cool corpse thigh touching yours from hip to knee. You had been nearly eight weeks in the Mithraeum. The sword that you bathed in your own arterial blood was sheathed in bone and heavy on your back. You no longer knew what it was like not to be afraid.
> 
> You—with your unfortunate memory for poetry—could still hear Teacher’s verse, in his low, soothing, ordinary voice, chase itself round and round your head:
> 
> _For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams  
> Of the beautiful Annabel Lee._
> 
> _**\***_
> 
> _**THE EMPEROR OF THE NINE HOUSES, THE PRINCE UNDYING (WHILOM??? JOHN???)  
> Who was A.L.?**_

The second reference to the poem then appears here:

> He pronounced her name, as both his wayward saints had, as two clearly separate letters: you could hear the _A_ and the _L._ He said, “It stood for a couple of things. A joke, mostly. I often called her _Annabel Lee. Annie Laurie._ When I first met her I just called her _First, One._ She had a real name, but I buried it with her, and nobody says it anymore.
> 
> “She has been dead for nearly ten thousand years, but she keeps her vigil with me, as a memory, if nothing else ... Annabel Lee was my—what do I call her? Guide? Friend? I’d hoped so...”
> 
> You did not know how to respond to this. He did not seem to need a response. God said, “She was the first Resurrection. She was my Adam. As the dust settled and I beheld what was left and what was gone, I was entirely alone. The world had been ended, Harrowhark. One moment I was a man, and then the next moment I was the Necrolord Prime, the first necromancer, and more importantly, a landlord with no tenants.”
> 
> You said, “Teacher, what destroyed the House of the First?”
> 
> “Not much,” said the Emperor, and he tried to smile. It was awful. “Rising sea levels and a massive nuclear fission chain reaction ... it all went downhill from there.”

‘Annabel’ then comes up for the final time in _Harrow_ only after Alecto has been named as Alecto: 

> “Yes, the eyes,” she said. “_Your_ child ... _Alecto’s_ eyes.”
> 
> A ripple of ice over the face. A hardening of the mouth. He said quietly, “Don’t call her—”
> 
> _“Alecto! Alecto! Alecto!_” repeated Mercy shrilly.

For the rest of this scene, John persists in referring to her as Annabel, whilst both Mercy and Augustine alternate between the two names (with Augustine at one point defaulting to Annabel before correcting himself), here thickening the tension already established in the second passage between the ‘Annabel’ or ‘A.L.’ emerging from John’s account and the ‘Alecto’ apparently representing a truth outside of it.

I will talk about these passages in detail in a moment, but in order to be able to do so properly, I want to posit a slightly more subtle reading of the position taken up by _Annabel Lee_ in _Harrow the Ninth_ wherein the reference to the poem functions not only to introduce the sets of discourses laid out within the immediate parameters of the poem itself, but to signify the specific discursive lines drawn and tackled in another text greatly indebted to Poe and to Annabel: Vladimir Nabokov’s _Lolita._ Much like _Harrow the Ninth_, _Lolita_ makes repeated references to _Annabel Lee,_ here as the foundation for Humbert Humbert's 'nymphet' imaginary; having entered into a relationship with a young girl named Annabel Leigh when he himself was young, only to see Annabel die, he imagines the young girls whom he covets to exist '\[on\] an enchanted island haunted by those nymphets of mine and surrounded by a vast, misty sea.' The ‘jury’ to whom he addresses the novel are charged with receiving his account of Annabel Leigh as 'exhibit number one,' being what the 'misinformed, simple, noble-winged seraphs' of the poem envied; and when Humbert tells us outright that 'in a certain magic and fateful way, Lolita began with Annabel,' we might think not of the novel's Annabel Leigh (who after all is only a flimsy stand-in for her namesake), but of the Annabel who emerges from Poe's voice. 'Lolita,' Humbert's imagined version of Dolores Haze through whom he rationalises his rape and predation, is made possible by the groundwork laid by _Annabel Lee._[5](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-5)

_Lolita_ is, famously, a book that depicts a pedophilic relationship from the perspective of the pedophile in question, who attempts to explicate his actions to an imagined jury-audience (a role played by the reader) using a set of social logics emerging from the realm of the literary imaginary and demonstrating his (and Nabokov’s) derision for Freudian psychiatry. In relying heavily on the works of writers such as Poe and Dante and Lewis Carroll, Nabokov makes explicit that which already lurked in the margins of those making up the fabric of Humbert Humbert’s literary worldview: that the poetic register, the ephemeral, detemporalised state by which _Annabel Lee_ becomes possible, is shadowed by the agency of their creators—who, like Humbert growing out of the ‘princedom by the sea’ wherein he first fell in love with Annabel Leigh, necessarily exist outside of the poem in question. 

I highly doubt that _Lolita_ was intended as a damnatory text, whether towards Poe or any other author from whom Humbert borrows; Nabokov, understandably, resisted didactic readings of his novel, of which I believe such an interpretation would be one; yet he does probe the literary fabric held up against the authoritative structural forces that Humbert repeatedly manages to elide. Despite the assertions of the fictitious 'John Ray' in his foreword of the book that _Lolita_ is a cautionary tale which reinforces for every good American the necessity of sound psychiatric institutions and the preservation of the nuclear family, the novel deals far more with Humbert's capacity to run rings around courts and psychiatrists alike, able to infiltrate the family home and usurp the position of fatherhood in order to carry out his predation all whilst drawing on the rationale afforded to him as a professor of English literature and admirer of–among others, but most potently–Edgar Allan Poe. At every turn, the social mechanisms supposedly in place to protect Dolores Haze fail her and fail her; precisely because they are not intended to 'protect' her or any child at all, but to reproduce and preserve whiteness in American racial capitalism at the social level.

Humbert Humbert, as narrator and master of the memoir that he imagines will allow himself and his 'Lolita' alike to pass from the finite realm of the living into the space of literary immortality, retains total control over the narrative right down to the naming of his cast of characters; critics have posited that the name 'Humbert Humbert' refers to Poe's William Wilson, allowing Humbert to recast his shadowing by Clare Quilty as a doppelgänger equivalent to that of Poe's story. More importantly, this means that 'Annabel Leigh' is not only a reference made by Nabokov to nudge the reader in the direction of the poem, but a conscious association drawn by Humbert between the origin of his 'nymphet' imaginary and the discursive terrain occupied by Poe's corpus of literature on dead girls, and Poe’s marriage to a thirteen-year-old. An aesthetic fetishisation of death which borders on the necrophilic finds itself positioned in collocation with the sort of pedophilia that Humbert is able to name and explicate; such a collocation takes on significant weight if we are to read _Harrow the Ninth_ in particular as being in in dialogue with _Lolita._

If I wanted to pick at _Harrow_ for ‘clues’ gesturing towards a dimension of intertextuality with _Lolita_ which distinguishes it from merely being another novel that grapples similarly with _Annabel Lee,_ I could point out, for example, that both texts make reference to _The Little Mermaid_; that the scene wherein John first reads _Annabel Lee_ to Harrow mimics almost beat-for-beat a scene in Muir’s _[The Magician’s Apprentice](https://www.lightspeedmagazine.com/fiction/the-magicians-apprentice/)_ in which a different John gifts a teenage girl with a copy of _Lolita_ and describes it as a novel concerned with the practice of ‘devouring somebody’s life’; that Humbert at one point imbues upon Dolores the title of ‘Lolita the First.’[6](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-6) Yet even without these more explicit signposts (which on their own might well be read as coincident), the presence of _Annabel Lee_ in _Harrow the Ninth_ bears the weight of, or is at the very least better elucidated by, the potential shadow-presence of Nabokov’s developments on Annabel’s discursive space.

We first meet Dolores Haze not through Humbert’s voice, but in the fictitious foreword in which she is introduced merely as ‘Mrs. Richard F. Schiller,’ who is said to have died in childbirth. This early in the novel, we have no way of knowing that ‘Mrs. Richard F. Schiller’ refers to Dolores—we will only realise this much later, in a harrowing moment wherein she, after escaping Humbert’s clutches only to be thrust into poverty and further sexual abuse, signs a letter begging her abuser for money under such a name. At her very first mention in the novel, we learn two things about Dolores Haze—that we are to receive her first and foremost under a name that is not her own, and that she is dead.

John Ray’s afterthought towards ‘Mrs Richard F. Schiller’s’ death in his foreword aside, Humbert’s ‘Lolita’ becomes a totalising force crafted to subsume Dolores’ identity, here meaning agency, selfhood, ability to penetrate the narrative space and emerge as a person who exists beyond the rendition given to us by her abuser. The opening lines of the novel run as follows:

> Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul. Lo-lee-ta: the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee. Ta. She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four feet ten in one sock. She was Lola in slacks. She was Dolly at school. She was Dolores on the dotted line. But in my arms she was always Lolita.

(Note, of course, the middle syllable of the name being isolated twice as ‘Lee.’) ‘Lolita’ here becomes an identity cleaved away from Dolores only to be superimposed over her discursive space; in effect, Lolita is Humbert’s own creation, achieving total dominance in a narrative of his own design such that Dolores Haze—her true name written as such to signify the ‘dolorous haze’ into which her life is made to disappear—loses even the right to self-assertion at the naming level. Lolita is the fiction through which Humbert intends to immortalise himself in the sphere of literary infamy after his death, spun out of the fabric of _Annabel Lee_ and shadowed, always—to the point of Humbert himself asserting that Lolita is ‘\[his\] girl, as Vee was Poe’s and Bea Dante’s,’—by the violence lying outside but just within the line of sight of that very same literary scaffolding.[7](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-7)

‘Annabel Haze, alias Dolores Lee, alias Lo-lee-ta,’ is what Humbert calls her as he searches for a ‘kingdom by the sea’ (a beach) on which to rape her; the twin identifiers of ‘Annabel Lee’ and ‘Lolita’ here (and everywhere) serve to engulf Dolores Haze. We might at this point consider this alongside John’s use of the name Annabel, or alongside his sense that giving power to the name which lies outside of his control (ie. Alecto) in turn gave power to something else over which he had no control (ie. the version of her that exists by the accounts of Augustine and Mercymorn, neither of whom are reliable narrators but both of whom voice a discourse outside of John’s); we might look to the very title of Nabokov’s novel, and Humbert’s insistence that his ‘memoir’ only be published only following Dolores’ death, and consider John’s saying that ‘she had a real name, but I buried it with her, and no one says it anymore.’

Naming is the agency that Humbert Humbert was able to strip away from Dolores Haze; to borrow Muir’s construction, the removal of the name was the first step by which the devouring of her life was made possible. Yet in ceding the space occupied by ‘Annabel’ to the naming of Alecto as Alecto, the question of agency that might otherwise come to the fore is superseded by the fact that the voices intruding on the version of ‘A.L.’ delivered to Harrow and to us by John do not belong to Alecto herself and do not appear as an act of self-assertion or reclamation of an agentive space, but come from Augustine and Mercymorn, who locate her instead within a realm of monstrosity. Where Annabel is a ‘guide,’ a ‘friend,’ born out of a referential touchstone that fetishises the passivity of the dead girl-lover, Alecto is a ‘bloody monster in a human suit,’ a ‘freak’ who ‘never could act human,’ disconnected from human agency such that Augustine doubts she could be persuaded into even an ‘unsophisticated con’ as she lacks the self-control and self-awareness to tell a lie. Where the act of naming Dolores as Dolores—both within the text of _Lolita_ itself and as critical readers who resist the impetus to reproduce the internal logics of Humbert’s memoir—grants her a selfhood cleaved away from the ‘Lolita’ imaginary wherein we can understand her as a victim of abuse and a conscious agent within the narrative, Alecto’s naming as such establishes a diametric of sorts not between the Annabel imaginary and the agentive site that John occludes, but between said imaginary and the similarly dehumanising deference to her apparent monstrosity. (Interestingly, there is another voice inserted into these overlapping accounts—Pyrrha establishes Mercy and Augustine as insufficient narrators in saying that she ‘didn’t hate’ Alecto, thus situating Alecto along a discursive axis wherein she can be met with on a level humanised and agentive enough for anything other than abject hatred and revulsion to be made possible. It is this intervention, along with Harrow’s, which makes the monstrosity-as-abject-alterity voiced by Mercy and Augustine begin to feel as flawed and porous as the construction of Annabel.)

Alecto is named for one of the three Erinyes, chthonic beings of Greek mythology charged with enacting vengeance against deserving mortals; the name itself translates to ‘implacable or unceasing anger.’ (The Alecto of antiquity also makes a brief appearance in Dante’s _Inferno,_ a text by another author named in Humbert’s literary fabric.) In light of this, we can take John’s earlier claim that he ‘buried a monster’ as something of a concession to the Alecto of Mercy and Augustine’s (equally flawed, equally limited) perspective, and thus read the first passage—wherein we see the _Annabel Lee_ motif introduced as couched specifically _within_ such a ‘monstrous’ imaginary and interspersed with Harrow’s own, erotically charged and tender, obsequious perspective—as an interplay between these three otherwise conflicting sites at which we receive Alecto.

Alecto (or the Body, who for the purpose of simplicity I am assuming is Alecto) as we receive her through Harrow’s voice is an object of devotion mingled with sensuality such as we see in the first passage above; crucially, it is a sensuality that cannot be realised. Harrow’s perspective makes room for a negation, or at least a tempering, of the abject monstrosity with which Alecto is rendered—the ‘buried monster’ is a moniker deployed ironically—yet at the same time finds itself overwhelmed by the voice put forward by John wherein Alecto becomes Annabel Lee, as is communicated when Harrow’s imaginary near-embrace is interrupted by the memory of the poem itself. Here, Harrow is—unwillingly—made to occupy something like the discursive position taken up by John, wherein Alecto becomes an absolute object; her own reverence is now inflected with the presence of _Annabel Lee_ and the baggage that it carries.

This is not to position Harrow’s relationship to Alecto as in any way similar to that of John—such a reading would be more or less impossible to defend. Rather, all this is to get at the totalising force of the Annabel/Alecto diametric, and the particular intrusion of John’s voice even onto a fabric that seeks to afford her agency but has no real way of doing so; where we receive Dolores as ‘Lolita’ through the voice of Humbert Humbert and recognise her to be Dolores through the cracks, we receive Alecto at a site wherein any gesture towards meaningful self-assertion or agency (including that which comes through Harrow’s perspective) is engulfed by the forces that ultimately serve to render a legible site of abuse. In the long run, this sets the stage for what I imagine will effectively be narrative carnage once she _is_ introduced as an agentive player; for the purpose of this essay, it is a development on the discourse of _Lolita_ and the means by which Canaan House, as ‘kingdom by the sea,’ becomes the site wherein such a pattern of abuse is made possible.

_Lolita_ is an immensely haunted novel; if we continue to read it and _Harrow the Ninth_ as intertextual works, its very existence can be read as a practice of necromancy. John Ray, our fictional doctor, begins by rattling off the fates of everyone involved, with both Humbert and ‘Mrs. Richard F. Schiller’ established as dead before the story starts; he reassures the reader, a little sardonically, that ‘the caretakers of the various cemeteries involved report that no ghosts walk.’

Yet John Ray’s position as a doctor and a voice for the contemporary psychiatric body that Nabokov so disdained renders his perspective limited to the point of naivety. Though the ghosts may not walk as far as the mouthpiece for Freudian psychiatric science is concerned, the momentum behind Humbert’s memoir is the impetus to reverse death—to establish for himself a literary legacy in common with those who came before him (ie. Poe, Dante) such that he and his Lolita may find themselves couched in the immortality that characterises his ‘nymphet’ desires. Humbert’s voice frequently locates death as a state twinned with the ephemeral ‘nymphet’; he at one point compares Dolores to Annabel as his ‘dead bride,’ again drawing the necrophilic underpinnings of Poe’s poetic fascination with dead girls into close proximity with his pedophilic practices in doing so. The memoir—and the novel itself—closes on Humbert’s request that it be published only after Dolly Schiller’s death, such that ‘neither of us is alive when the reader opens this book.’ He explains that ‘one wanted H.H. to exist at least a couple of months longer, so as to have him make you live in the minds of later generations. I am thinking of aurochs and angels, the secret of durable pigments, prophetic sonnets, the refuge of art. And this is the only immortality you and I may share, my Lolita.’ 

In other words, he refuses to let Dolores Haze die. Even in death, she must be reanimated and given over to an anticipated realm of literary immortality within the selfhood that Humbert fashions for her; _Lolita_ the memoir is an act of necromancy in that it brings a dead girl back to life when its very existence as a text accessible to the reader is predicated on the fact of her being dead, only to then re-perform such a death first through the insertion of newly constructed identities—Annabel, Lolita—in the space where her own should lie before even getting to the site where her death, literal, takes place. The ghosts whose ‘walking’ John Ray denies are found not at the site of the graveyard but in the very production and reproduction of the narrative.

The discursive overlap should be clear. Across both books, narrative momentum both at the macro- and the micro- scale is driven by a simultaneous suffocating presence of death and a refusal to let dead things remain permanently dead; death is a site of instrumentalisation and exploitation, from the mechanics of necromancy down to the use of human remains as raw material. The whole of _Harrow the Ninth_ hinges on Harrow’s refusal to allow Gideon to die, and the ambivalence forged between Gideon’s own resentment over her being kept (partially) alive being a sign of her corruption and allegiance to imperial logics, and the narrative drive towards Harrow allowing herself to grieve. Writ large, we see an empire that emerged from a site of resurrection of which Canaan House is the epicentre; we see an antagonism acted out on imperial versus insurgent grounds but apparently located at the site of something (in all likelihood, the Earth) having been ‘left to die’; we see the drive behind imperial expansionism be at its core the need to generate and utilise death, which is a framework as stark as it is heavy-handed, and we see the physically accumulative consequences of the practice of large-scale resurrection hunt down the perpetrators (ie. John et al) in retribution for the violence that such a practice demands. Finally, we see John and Alecto; if Humbert’s preoccupation lay with the question of a transitory mortal life and a literary immortality obtained through his effacing of Dolores Haze in favour of Lolita, then the totality of the process of consumption on the part of John towards Alecto and the fact of Alecto’s very existence being tethered to his act of resurrection such that she cannot conceptually exist without him might well be read as the goal of Humbert’s memoir realised. Alecto’s being ‘switched off’ and left in the limbic state between death and resurrection in response to her apparent monstrosity yet further reinforces her being prevented from death—perhaps even unable to die.

Whether the practices of rape and pedophilia that bolster Nabokov’s novel and subsequently underscore any reference to _Annabel Lee_ which draws on its intertextual presence within _Lolita_ are ‘in play’ in the literal sense where John and Alecto are concerned is both unclear and entirely immaterial, because Muir reconfigures these practices of predation at the site of cannibalism—‘devouring,’ as John Hollis of _The Magician’s Apprentice_ describes Humbert’s violence—such that we might understand cannibalism as a discursive signifier that draws a connection between the violence of _Lolita_ and the broader means by which a person’s life comes to be consumed. The one practice does not need to stand in for the other in a one-for-one metaphor; it functions instead as a literalising of the reading of _Lolita_ by which such forms of abuse are understood to be acts of consumption of their subjects. Across such relationships as Gideon and Cytherea, Ianthe and Harrow, John and Alecto, eventually Harrow and Gideon, to enact a violence of subjugation and an exploitation of power is made the same as to cannibalise. 

That these cannibalistic mechanisms take on both a eucharistic dimension and an imperialist one (all of Muir’s subject relations within the nexus of empire are, after all, ultimately rendered in the interest of imperial expansion and fortification) is a development on Nabokov’s discourse; where Nabokov considers the production of sites of abuse in conjunction with literary imaginaries, power, and structural intervention, Muir relates the same production of such sites to particular imperialist Christian logics, deconstructing the linguistic makeup by which God as emblematic of a site of power comes to be understood. _Lolita_ obfuscates the line drawn between father and predator, and draws attention to the abuse made possible through the insistence on the fabric of the family as a site of safety for children; Humbert gains access to Dolores by infiltrating the family unit when he marries Charlotte Haze only to kill her and take custody of her child, and is enabled in his doing so by the security that his position as her ‘father’ enables both at the systemic and the social level.[8](https://ghostposting.substack.com/p/houses-iii-canaan-house#footnote-8) If we take John Gaius to be occupying the discursive site given to Humbert by Nabokov—which, as I have attempted to demonstrate, I believe it is reasonable to do—Muir sutures this probing at the violence made possible through fatherhood to the Christian notion of God as the father, through John’s pseudo- (or in the one instance, literal) fatherly position over Harrow, Gideon, and Alecto.

Harrow, Gideon, and Alecto perform a constellate function within the narrative, making full sense only in relation to one another; at times through parallels, at times through similarly rendered discursive positions, and at times through opposition and conflict. Harrow and Alecto, rendered aesthetically similar, both taken in by John in much the same manner, positioned as the counterparts to the current running between John and Gideon; Gideon and Alecto, both subject to abuse and predation, both taking up cavalierhood as a subject position and being made available to that practice of consumption through its logics, both dead and also not-dead, both dead and also not allowed to die; Harrow and Gideon and Alecto all as God’s ‘children’ of sorts—what does it mean to be God’s child when, as a text like _Lolita_ tells us, fatherhood under a system wherein the familial structure becomes a means of reifying and reinscribing sites of violence can reveal the cracks present in the assumption that to be fathered is a desirable, necessary state? What does it mean to be a child of God when such a notion within Christianity has generated violence through missionary imperialism, which holds particular currency in Polynesia, and the language of parental relations carries the baggage of violence through the reproduction of the logic of the nuclear family as a function of white supremacy? This is, I imagine, the site at which the Gideon/Alecto overlap will become important—what does the resurrection of Christ become when overlaid with the resurrection of a dead girl that could fall either within or against the logics of a literary impetus that, for Nabokov, both evades and exists necessary to the logics of the reproduction of whiteness? 

All of these are complex, convoluted setups that remain only half-mobilised, having so far only been given two books in which to develop themselves; yet even within these nascent developments, the taking up both of Poe’s poem itself and of Nabokov’s discourse directs us towards a refiguring of _Annabel Lee_ as a site at which certain violences—in conjunction with abuse, with power, with Christianity, with the semiotic associations made possible within cannibalism—are brought to the fore for interrogation.

To bring this long-winded line of argument back to Canaan House at last—where the house finds itself situated amidst this discourse is as the ‘kingdom by the sea’; for Poe, the contained imaginary within which the relationship between the speaker and Annabel can play out (until her death, at which point the kingdom is transformed into a ‘tomb’ and ‘sepulchre’), and for Nabokov, a similarly contained imaginary wherein lies the ephemeral ‘nymphet’ state (the ‘enchanted island’) coveted by Humbert and sought specifically in his attempts to rape Dolores on a beach and so discursively merge her with his ‘dead bride.’ For John, and for Muir, the ‘kingdom by the sea’ is the site of production for the _Annabel Lee_ imaginary; yet, as the above sections have outlined, it is also a site at which the mechanisms of imperialism are (re)produced and consolidated, drawing the literary fantasy afforded by Annabel into dialogue with the structural fabric within which such a fantasy is made possible in much the same way as Nabokov is able to do. Here, ‘kingdom’ takes on the atavistic function calling to mind an imaginary which attempts to remove Canaan House from the legacy of nuclear fallout and situate it instead in the world that Poe conjures up, yet ironically reiterates the conditions of social violence that such a resurrection facilitated; John Gaius as ‘King Undying’ means John Gaius as imperialist, and John Gaius as refigured Humbert Humbert becomes subsequently attached to this discursive form.

We might also consider the detemporalised state of Humbert’s ‘enchanted island,’ and the ways in which the production of the Annabel imaginary depends upon something of a hauntological pin—at once situating oneself inside of the timespace of the poem and necessarily existing outside of it (in order to establish it as ‘many and many a year ago’). Though the poem itself is retroactive rather than hauntological, both Humbert and John situate themselves first as outsiders tasked with reproducing (arguably reviving and reanimating) Annabel carried out from a site of exile from the ‘kingdom’ in question and then as agents operating inside of the poem itself. This reading is in keeping with the disjointed temporal function taken on by Canaan House in _Harrow the Ninth_ (and to some extent in _Gideon the Ninth,_ as a haunted and temporally difficult space dotted with paraphernalia pertaining to its past inhabitants)_;_ as a hauntological, achronological site wherein the past overlays with the present and each are only fully elucidated in relation to one another. 

The reproduction—revivification—of the ‘kingdom by the sea’ is also twinned with the act of resurrection itself, and such a revivification in turn brings Canaan House into a parallel of sorts with Alecto; Alecto is Alecto ‘the First,’ God’s first resurrection, and Canaan House is the House of the First, the wasteland left from the initial fallout and the initial site of resurrection out of which the rest of the empire emerged. Canaan House, like Alecto and like Gideon, is a fetishised corpse—a ‘beautiful corpse,’ made so by its state of half-decay; like both Alecto and Gideon, it orients itself around the thorniness of a persistent drive to reverse and resist death and the violence made possible through a refusal to let the thing we love die. It is at once the reproduction of the ‘kingdom by the sea’ imaginary and the damnatory evidence that such an imaginary, once dead, _cannot_ be reproduced; that to reproduce and insert oneself into it is to carry out a violence.

With any luck, these three lenses through which Canaan House can be made sense of have gone some way towards articulating a coherent analysis. The Gothic house reproduces particular social conditions necessary to particular socioeconomic functions and extracts horror both from their destabilisation and their reinforcement; the hauntological dreamscape makes the entrapment of such a generated horror apparent through the detemporalisation forcing different narratives to intersect and overlap; and the ‘kingdom by the sea’ considers the imaginary lying at the heart of this structural function and the conditions needed for its production to be made possible. Embedded within this are—to speak incredibly broadly—questions of necrophilia, gender, imperialism, abuse and the conditions that make it possible, death and eschatology—that remain partway mobilised and I imagine will be brought to completion in _Nona_ and _Alecto._ For now, I hope the gestures I have made in this essay have at least helped to tease out the sites at which they are beginning to develop themselves, and elucidate some of the intertextual scaffolding within which Muir’s work operates.
