---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '56712'
  title: 'The Cheeky Monkey: Writing Narrative Comedy'
  author: Tim Ferguson
  asin: B00BFM0JJY
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2022-02-04'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81-yr-TgUiL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 66
---
# The Cheeky Monkey
## Metadata
* Author: [Tim Ferguson](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B00BFM0JJY
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BFM0JJY
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY)

## Highlights
Comedy deals with the abrupt negation, reversal, equation, furthering or exaggeration of given elements. It compares, combines, associates, deconstructs or changes the context of given elements. It uses stories, characters, rhythms and repetition to build and then defy assumptions and expectations. It presents nonsense scenarios or propositions, uses random elements to create absurdities, and applies faulty logic to known absolutes or truisms. It inverts values, portraying the trivial as important, the irrational as rational, the incomplete as complete—and vice versa—to illuminate larger truths, or expose the fallacies in accepted truths. It examines human nature and relationships by distilling and compressing character and narrative. It offers bare truths, not fanciful escapism. It examines individual human behaviour, often to highlight common behaviour or broader social concerns. It distils complexities and makes the simple complex. It uses metaphor to highlight aspects of situations or themes. — location: [90](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=90) ^ref-52200

---
Simplicity and Surprise — location: [206](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=206) ^ref-20800

---
when hearing a story, we tend to make logical connections based on what is familiar. Humour exploits this tendency. Just when the audience thinks they know where a joke is headed, it hits them with an entirely different outcome. — location: [234](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=234) ^ref-28882

---
Surprise can be generated by misdirection concerning a character’s beliefs or intentions: — location: [262](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=262) ^ref-39279

---
Or misdirection concerning a character’s role or situation: — location: [268](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=268) ^ref-36146

---
The primary reason for keeping jokes as brief as possible is to maintain surprise. While an audience listens to a joke, unconsciously their minds dart ahead to anticipate the punchline. With enough time, unless it’s a gob-smacking surprise, they may work out where the joke is going. Brevity keeps the teller one step ahead. — location: [273](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=273) ^ref-30439

---
Brevity also means that the audience is given the minimum information. The less they know, the more assumptions they make and the easier they are to misdirect. — location: [276](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=276) ^ref-24027

---
A punchline that implies a comic contradiction is usually superior to one that is baldly stated. — location: [288](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=288) ^ref-36332

---
BREVITY A gag should be boiled down to its bare minimum. Even a shaggy-dog joke needs a tight punchline. While audiences listen to a gag, their minds are racing to guess where the joke is going. The longer the gag takes, the longer they have to devise their own punchlines. Keeping a gag lean helps the teller stay a step ahead of the listener. Packing in as much implied information as possible gives a gag punch. SIMPLICITY Avoid distractions. The elements of a given gag should relate directly to the punchline. — location: [310](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=310) ^ref-46253

---
CONTRAST The contrasts in negations, juxtapositions, distortions or misinterpretations should be stark. LET THE AUDIENCE DO THE WORK Instead of openly declaring the gag’s message, you can allow the audience to draw their own conclusion from the bare information the gag gives them. — location: [315](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=315) ^ref-52438

---
Irony and Sarcasm — location: [332](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=332) ^ref-8340

---
‘comic irony’ occurs in only two forms: a) Because of their own actions, a character’s intention or desire is denied. — location: [341](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=341) ^ref-33419

---
b) Because of their own true nature, a character’s intention or desire is denied. — location: [343](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=343) ^ref-58374

---
SITUATIONAL IRONY The outcome of an action differs from, or is contrary to, the expected or intended outcome. — location: [354](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=354) ^ref-49775

---
DRAMATIC IRONY Due to a character’s lack of knowledge, their every action or word is laced with a different or opposite meaning for the other characters in the story and also for the audience. — location: [364](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=364) ^ref-3342

---
VERBAL IRONY The intended meaning differs from or is contrary to the actual meaning. — location: [374](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=374) ^ref-61768

---
Sarcasm is to state the opposite of one’s meaning in a way deliberately intended to ridicule, injure or criticise. — location: [385](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=385) ^ref-40402

---
To stay a step ahead of the audience, sarcastic characters need to vary their technique. For instance, they can— Invert the truth: GARY: Does my arse look fat in these shorts? GRACE: Fat? In those miniscule things? Not at all. Invert their meaning: GARY: I thought I’d wear the shorts to the dinner party. GRACE: Oh, wonderful. Fabulous. Terrific … Exaggerate while implying the opposite: GARY: Come on, these shorts are quite stylish. GRACE: Yeah, you look like Brad Pitt. Unfairly compare: GARY: But don’t I look sexy in these shorts? GRACE: Oh, yes … sexy like a hippo in a g-string. Suggest an unpleasant consequence: GARY: I’m wearing these shorts to the dinner party whether you like it or not. GRACE: Great. Just give me a minute to kill myself. — location: [391](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=391) ^ref-56452

To stay a step ahead of the audience, sarcastic characters need to vary their technique. For instance, they can— Invert the truth: GARY: Does my arse look fat in these shorts? GRACE: Fat? In those miniscule things? Not at all. Invert their meaning: GARY: I thought I’d wear the shorts to the dinner party. GRACE: Oh, wonderful. Fabulous. Terrific … Exaggerate while implying the opposite: GARY: Come on, these shorts are quite stylish. GRACE: Yeah, you look like Brad Pitt. Unfairly compare: GARY: But don’t I look sexy in these shorts? GRACE: Oh, yes … sexy like a hippo in a g-string. Suggest an unpleasant consequence: GARY: I’m wearing these shorts to the dinner party whether you like it or not. GRACE: Great. Just give me a minute to kill myself.

---
Audience familiarity with the subject matter is crucial in observation comedy: it works by making the familiar strange, seizing on common behaviour that would otherwise go unnoticed. — location: [407](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=407) ^ref-50822

Audience familiarity with the subject matter is crucial in observation comedy: it works by making the familiar strange, seizing on common behaviour that would otherwise go unnoticed.

---
DECONSTRUCTION The absurdity concealed in the mundane can be revealed by deconstructing something and examining its individual components. — location: [412](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=412) ^ref-42932

The absurdity concealed in the mundane can be revealed by deconstructing something and examining its individual components.

---
PERSPECTIVE The commonplace can also appear quirky or unique when examined from an original perspective. In the following routine Steven Wright takes a bird’s perspective on annual migration. — location: [430](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=430) ^ref-33253

---
CHANGING CONTEXT The question, ‘[Subject]: what’s that about?’ is a cliché of stand-up comedy. Changing the context of familiar things can highlight their silliness and reveal a larger truth in the same way as a metaphor. For instance, throwing rice at newlyweds is a traditional part of the wedding ritual. But what about other foods that often go with rice? How would the newlyweds react if we pelted them with beef casserole or soy sauce? — location: [440](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=440) ^ref-27296

---
Thoughtless group behaviour is prime material for a context change. — location: [445](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=445) ^ref-14190

Changing the context of familiar things can highlight their silliness and reveal a larger truth in the same way as a metaphor. For instance, throwing rice at newlyweds is a traditional part of the wedding ritual. But what about other foods that often go with rice? How would the newlyweds react if we pelted them with beef casserole or soy sauce? What if the rice was cooked? What if we threw rice at our married friends every time we saw them? All these absurdities highlight the larger truth that throwing rice at newlyweds has lost its traditional meaning. It’s become something we do without thinking. Thoughtless group behaviour is prime material for a context change.

---
Comic juxtapositions emerge when, for instance, we imagine other common household items also doing entertaining things: — location: [451](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=451) ^ref-43812

---
Many comedians and wise-cracking sitcom characters can get a laugh simply by voicing insights that their audience accepts have a grain of truth. There is no formula to making insights funny beyond keeping them brief. The best comic lines of this type tend to imply a lot more than is said. — location: [491](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=491) ^ref-55013

Many comedians and wise-cracking sitcom characters can get a laugh simply by voicing insights that their audience accepts have a grain of truth. There is no formula to making insights funny beyond keeping them brief. The best comic lines of this type tend to imply a lot more than is said.

---
TRUISMS Humorists and comedians all have truisms derived from their experience or identity: You can’t buy love. But you can pay heavily for it. —Henny Youngman Australia has a history of male failures that became heroes … Ned Kelly put a bucket over his head—hero. Burke and Wills got lost—heroes. Jews wandered in the desert for forty years, nobody called them a hero. —Rachel Berger — location: [519](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=519) ^ref-19739

TRUISMS Humorists and comedians all have truisms derived from their experience or identity: You can’t buy love. But you can pay heavily for it. —Henny Youngman Australia has a history of male failures that became heroes … Ned Kelly put a bucket over his head—hero. Burke and Wills got lost—heroes. Jews wandered in the desert for forty years, nobody called them a hero.

---
ASSERTIONS WITH A GRAIN OF TRUTH Something doesn’t have to be self-evident to contain an insight. These assertions often use metaphor or euphemism to make their point, and may be broadly accepted by their intended audience. Liberals feel unworthy of their possessions. Conservatives feel they deserve everything they’ve stolen. —Mort Sahl A liberal is a conservative who hasn’t been mugged yet. —PJ O’Rourke — location: [535](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=535) ^ref-34173

---
POINTED QUESTIONS The truth can be left for the audience to infer. Sometimes the question itself pushes buttons that, in a different context, would be better left un-pushed. Hitler was a bad man. Winston Churchill was a good man. But if you were in a balloon with Hitler and Churchill and you were losing altitude … —Harry Hill — location: [542](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=542) ^ref-22253

---
DRAWING A LONG BOW Some gags take an accepted fact and draw a conclusion that is absurd or does not necessarily follow. If our founding fathers wanted us to care about the rest of the world, they wouldn’t have declared independence from it. —Stephen Colbert If God didn’t want us to eat beef, why’d he make cows so slow? —Brothers Judd Some comedians or comic characters use an audience’s assumptions about them to build surprises. The bold and brazen Sarah Silverman repeatedly plays upon the audience’s assumption that she is an archetypal razor-tongued beauty. — location: [548](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=548) ^ref-46325

DRAWING A LONG BOW Some gags take an accepted fact and draw a conclusion that is absurd or does not necessarily follow. If our founding fathers wanted us to care about the rest of the world, they wouldn’t have declared independence from it. —Stephen Colbert If God didn’t want us to eat beef, why’d he make cows so slow? —Brothers Judd Some comedians or comic characters use an audience’s assumptions about them to build surprises. The bold and brazen Sarah Silverman repeatedly plays upon the audience’s assumption that she is an archetypal razor-tongued beauty.

---
Self-referential gags often appear in narrative comedy. Like one-line gags, they set up a personal quality or role, then play upon it. — location: [619](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=619) ^ref-34037

They’re self-enclosed jokes that set up an archetypal quality (e.g. shyness or pedantry) or persona (e.g. a soccer mum or terrorist), then play on the audience’s preconception. While the comedy in narrative gags derives from character traits established through the course of the story, in self-referential gags the audience doesn’t need to know anything about the character in the joke beyond what is set up in the joke itself. Once an archetype or characteristic is established, the punchline presents an affirmation, negation or exaggeration of that archetype or characteristic. Self-referential gags often appear in narrative comedy. Like one-line gags, they set up a personal quality or role, then play upon it.

---
CONFIRMATION The punchline is a direct confirmation of the premise. I enjoy using the comedy of self-deprecation … but I’m not very good at it. —Arnold Brown — location: [620](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=620) ^ref-45466

---
NEGATION The premise is undermined or absurdly negated by the punchline. I want to join the Optimist’s Club, but they probably won’t accept me. —David Cervera — location: [631](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=631) ^ref-25929

---
EXAGGERATION The punchline takes the premise to a nonsensical extreme. Yes, I like my coffee hot and strong … like I like my women: hot and strong … with a spoon in them. —Eddie Izzard — location: [641](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=641) ^ref-9343

---
COMBINATIONS Some narrative self-referential gags perform two functions at once: BRIAN: You’re all individuals. CROWD: Yes! We’re all individuals! BRIAN: You’re all different. CROWD: Yes, we are all different! MAN IN CROWD: I’m not. —Life of Brian (Monty Python) In the space of five lines the crowd negates the premise ‘We are all individuals’ by trying to confirm it, and the crowd member confirms it by trying to negate it. — location: [661](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=661) ^ref-42520

---
Flawed Logic Flawed logic is the idiot brother of negation. Unsound reasoning undermines even the loftiest plans. Flawed logic is grist for character comedians and sitcom’s more clownish characters. Despite misplaced confidence, left to their own devices they can’t think their way out of a plastic bag. — location: [714](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=714) ^ref-27046

---
Absolutes and extremes are regular elements in flawed-logic gags because they are immutable. A negation, reduction, exaggeration or irony that appears to contradict this can yield comic results. Death, for example, is an absolute, yet in the hands of a comic intelligence it can be changeable as the wind. You kill me and I’ll see that you never work in this town again. —The Man with Two Brains, (George Gipe and Steve Martin) — location: [727](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=727) ^ref-53013

---
There are five types of straight-up gags: Incongruous juxtapositions Malapropisms and misinterpretations The obvious The absurd Wordplay — location: [757](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=757) ^ref-30679

---
Incongruous Juxtapositions ‘Incongruous juxtapositions’ is a fancy name for gags that draw a connection between things that appear to have little in common. — location: [771](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=771) ^ref-4511

---
PUNS The simplest juxtaposition gag is the pun. — location: [773](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=773) ^ref-1239

---
putting a group of not-so-hot associations together can have better results because it creates a rapid sequence of connections that the audience couldn’t devise on the spot. Q: What do politicians and pigs have in common? A: They have thick skin, their snouts in the trough and they provide a lot of pork. — location: [796](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=796) ^ref-56672

---
Even though a pun does not require a context to be understood, sitcoms regularly use them to display character as well as get a laugh: — location: [801](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=801) ^ref-57152

---
Another form of incongruous juxtaposition relies upon the audience’s common knowledge. This might be a frequently quoted text or song, or the life circumstances of a public figure. If it’s a quote, the audience will run it in their heads as they listen, and when the punchline departs from the quote in a way that creates an unexpected juxtaposition, the result can be humorous. — location: [805](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=805) ^ref-28137

---
The most straightforward technique for devising juxtapositions is as follows: Choose two concepts you intend to juxtapose. For each concept, draw up a list of associations. Words, names, songs, phrases, euphemisms, similes, people and organisations may all be included. The list can be as long as you like. Look for connections between both lists. For example, a word that appears in both lists or sounds similar to a word in the other list. Or find phrases, songs or quotations that contain key words that relate your central concepts in some way, or can be manipulated to do so. Devise a simple scenario or question, or make an observation that brings the two concepts together. For example, if you want to write a joke that connects horses and newlyweds, the two lists might include: — location: [819](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=819) ^ref-58635

---
CONVENIENT JUXTAPOSITIONS A convenient juxtaposition starts with an observation on a particular topic or situation, then finds another topic or situation of which the same observation is true. For example, Phyllis Diller’s gag below is about the futility of cleaning a house where children are continually making new mess. Cleaning your house while your kids are still growing is like shovelling the sidewalk before it stops snowing. —Phyllis Diller — location: [855](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=855) ^ref-20838

---
To create a convenient juxtaposition gag: Make a list of other actions that illustrate your observation. Choose the most appropriate and draw the parallel. It’s possible to construct another joke on the same topic as Phyllis Diller’s by finding a new scenario that also illustrates the idea, ‘Actions that are immediately undone’. Make a list of actions that are immediately undone, e.g. windscreen-wipers clearing raindrops from a windscreen, jumping up high, blowing your nose when you have a bad cold. Selecting the latter, it’s possible to draw a direct comparison: ‘Cleaning up after kids is like blowing your nose when you have the flu: as soon as — location: [864](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=864) ^ref-18278

---
‘two-meanings’ gags can go a lot further than puns. They can comprise a play on a phrase, euphemism or name with two or more meanings. Last week, I flew into New York; the usual way, not like terrorists do it. —Author — location: [873](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=873) ^ref-54578

---
Euphemisms provide a bountiful world of joke components. In most cases their implied meaning is so commonly understood that it has overtaken their literal meaning. And that’s where the fun begins. I heard that my dentist bit the bullet. You’d think he’d know better. —Author — location: [876](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=876) ^ref-60405

---
SYNECDOCHES A synecdoche (pronounced ‘sin-ek-doh-key’) is a cousin to the euphemism and metaphor. (It’s worth learning this term for the intellectual cache alone.) There are four kinds of synecdoche open to exploitation by the humorist. 1. A part is named but the whole is understood: ‘Eyeballs’ meaning TV viewers. ‘Bums on seats’ meaning audience numbers. Example: ‘The boss said we need more bums on seats. I’ll sit down while you go to the park and get the bums.’ 2. The whole is named but a part is understood: ‘9-11’ meaning September 9, 2001. ‘India beat England’ meaning eleven cricketers beat eleven other cricketers. Example: ‘If India had known they could beat England with a cricket bat, they wouldn’t have bothered with Gandhi’s independence movement’. 3. The general is named but the specific is understood: ‘Grog’ meaning beer rather than beer, wine and spirits. ‘Cats’ meaning domestic cats rather than the genus that includes lions, tigers, cougars and so forth. Example: ‘They say cats don’t like their owners. But I saw a tiger eat a zookeeper’. 4. The specific is named but the general is understood: ‘Hands’ meaning sailors (‘All hands on deck’) ‘Football’ meaning the game, the players and fans as well as the ball itself. For example, ‘I used to like a bit of football at lunchtime, but it gave me indigestion. Too leathery’. — location: [952](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=952) ^ref-23782

---
Malapropisms and Misinterpretations These gags are the pun’s mad aunties. They play upon a character’s misuse or misunderstanding of a word or phrase due to its similarity or connection to the intended word or phrase. Malapropisms, however, are always unintentional. — location: [966](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=966) ^ref-32835

---
MISINTERPRETATIONS Misinterpretations occur when a character shows by their response that they’ve misunderstood the meaning of a word or phrase. MONICA: Hey Joey, what would you do if you were omnipotent? JOEY: Probably kill myself. MONICA: Excuse me? JOEY: (indicating his penis) If little Joey’s dead, then I’ve got no reason to live. ROSS: Joey, om-nipotent. JOEY: You are? I’m so sorry. —Friends (‘The One With George Stephanopoulos’ by Alexa Junge) — location: [994](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=994) ^ref-30921

---
But an obvious gag doesn’t have to be a childish one. My dad is Irish and my mum is Iranian, which meant that we spent most of our family holidays in customs. —Patrick Monahan A sure cure for seasickness is to sit under a tree. —Spike Milligan I saw that show, 50 Things To Do Before You Die. I would have thought the obvious one was ‘Shout for help’. —Mark Watson — location: [1067](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1067) ^ref-59046

---
There are jokes in this category known as ‘anti-comedy’. Their punchlines, though salient, are darker than expected. The comedy derives in part from sheer daring. To write these gags, simply think of a question or premise and provide a response that’s accurate, awful and blunt: Q: Why do kittens go to heaven? A: Because they’re dead. — location: [1074](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1074) ^ref-50022

---
Most comic ‘heroes’ by contrast are not heroic at all. They are hapless victims without the social skills or material resources to — location: [1402](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1402) ^ref-25813

---
deal with their situation. When they do act heroically, it is often for selfish reasons. Basil Fawlty in Fawlty Towers is a classical example of the comic hero: bullying, inconsiderate, self-obsessed, paranoid, vindictive, lonely, lost, needy, greedy, spiteful, manipulative, egotistical, self-hating, overbearing, pussy-whipped, lazy, lascivious and a compulsive liar. Basil Fawlty is Mr Darcy stripped of the bullshit. We see in Darcy the person we would like to be. In Basil we see who we are. — location: [1403](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1403) ^ref-23759

---
Comic villains are typically evil from the get-go, and don’t change much. Their flaws are immediately apparent and inspire neither sympathy nor empathy. — location: [1407](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1407) ^ref-18722

---
Dom-com’s main characters are usually flawed but lovable. Poignancy is employed regularly, if sparingly. Loyalty, honesty (to one’s self and to others), true love and courage are the meat and potatoes of domestic comedy. Dom-com stories typically deal with matters of the heart, inviting the viewer to engage emotionally in the dilemmas and choices of the characters. In — location: [1528](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1528) ^ref-39022

---
Emotional engagement is the hook that will catch the viewer. If your conflicts are commonplace, that hook becomes a net that will capture an entire demographic. — location: [1533](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1533) ^ref-25626

---
In domestic sitcom, characters learn and change, but not fundamentally. Typically their life lessons deal with peripheral qualities that characters can reveal and resolve in one episode, such as a phobia about spiders. — location: [1536](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1536) ^ref-65501

---
fundamentally changing the character. Dom-com stories usually travel at a pace that feels natural rather than forced. The reversals may come more quickly as the story nears its climax, but not always. Dom-com protagonists are pre-occupied with their relationships. Dom-com explores the minutiae of emotional interaction. To achieve their desires, protagonists must learn and change—though not fundamentally. Poetic justice is always served. The viewer is ‘inside’ the story—that is, they must strongly identify with at least one character in the series. In domestic comedy, human relationships are under the microscope. — location: [1539](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1539) ^ref-698

---
commonplace. Farce protagonists are preoccupied by their own status. To achieve their goal, farce protagonists may learn peripheral or tactical lessons, but they cannot change in any meaningful way. The characters are held at arms length by the viewer, but only just. Poetic justice may or may not be served. In farce, human behaviour is under the microscope. — location: [1577](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1577) ^ref-37418

---
Satire’s protagonists are often preoccupied with power, justice or social order. Common satire settings include homes, public institutions, businesses, factories and offices. Rigid hierarchies, social status and the faux pas, paradoxes or hypocrisies they engender are the meat and flies of satire. Satire explores human social behaviour. Satirical characters do not learn or change. — location: [1613](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1613) ^ref-26560

---
The viewer is emotionally detached. Poetic justice is usually served—plus ten years’ hard labour. In satire, society is under the microscope. — location: [1616](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=1616) ^ref-58620

---
Comic archetypes such as the Clever Slave and Braggart Soldier are characters in some the earliest surviving comedies in Latin literature, written by the Roman playwright, Titus Maccius Plautus (circa 254–184 BC). The Clever Slave is a witty and mischievous rascal who often tricks his master and considers himself superior to those around him. Blackadder is arguably a contemporary incarnation of this archetype. — location: [2285](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=2285) ^ref-53115

---
Both of these archetypes are the ancestors of characters in Commedia Dell’Arte (the ‘Comedy of Professional Artists’) which came to prominence from the 16th to the 18th centuries. (The Clever Slave is ancestor to Commedia’s clever servant, Harlequin, the Braggart Soldier to the blustering buffoon, Il Capitano.) — location: [2290](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=2290) ^ref-55789

---
Narrative gags are comic events that reveal character, confirm a situation, offer a new perspective or move the story forward. They’re the bricks from which a comic narrative is built. Infinite in their variety, they are nonetheless governed by a limited number of time-honoured principles. These principles are not formulae but provide a framework within which anything is possible. All narratives gags fall into seven categories: Negations Cover-Ups Limited World Views Taking Things Literally Distortions Running Gags Catchphrases — location: [3044](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=3044) ^ref-5558

---
NEGATIONS Negation is essentially an instantaneous comic reversal. It’s a principle that had ’em rolling in the amphitheatre aisles way back when sandals were expensive anddesirable. The most common form is character negation. This occurs when a character changes their mind under pressure, when they undermine themselves inadvertently through their own behaviour or have their views inadvertently negated by the behaviour of another. — location: [3066](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B00BFM0JJY&location=3066) ^ref-57256

---
