---
created: 2022-09-30T12:50:37 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/7-dot-5-home-office-issues
author: 
---

# 7.5 Home Office Issues: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 7 activities page

---
[Return to Module 7 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-7 "Module 7")

## 7.5 Home Office Issues

Part of building a freelance business is conveying a high level of professionalism. And part of professionalism is having the necessary equipment and workstation to provide the client with proficient service and an expertly produced index.

To conduct a productive freelance indexing business, it will be necessary for you to put together an office, either at home or not, with the appropriate furniture and equipment. Ergonomics will be a consideration in some of your most important decisions.

Ergonomics is defined as the integration of human anatomy and physiology with design for comfort and safety. As applied to a computer workstation, ergonomic design is the best way to avoid such conditions as repetitive stress injuries, back strain, and carpel tunnel syndrome. These kinds of injuries are not only painful but can end a freelance indexing career. Any Internet search for "ergonomics" will bring up numerous online resources to help you put together a well-designed and ergonomically safe work environment. One of the best investments you can make is a well-designed computer chair. They can be expensive but are well worth the cost, and your back will thank you.

If, despite taking the best of precautions, you do suffer a hand or wrist injury, there are specialized keyboards and voice recognition programs that can allow an indexer to continue working. Dragon, the best known voice recognition program, can interface with the CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY indexing programs.

In additional to ergonomic issues, there are important considerations for the type of equipment necessary for your office. You’ll need to purchase a computer, desktop or laptop, or perhaps both a desktop and laptop. Reliable Internet service with a fast connection is a must. This may be an issue if you live in a rural area. And consider purchasing two monitors. This will make indexing from a PDF, instead of printing out the pages, much easier than having to use a single monitor with a split screen. You might also consider the purchase of computer glasses with blue light filter to reduce eye fatigue.

You will also have to purchase the appropriate indexing software. This course has introduced you to three of the most popular indexing software programs -- CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY -- but there are other programs that you may want to research. And in addition to indexing software, there may be other software programs you'll need to run an indexing business -- for example, Microsoft Office, a simple accounting program, and even software for creating embedded indexes. We’ll discuss embedded indexing more fully in Module 9.
