---
created: 2022-09-06T15:21:11 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/4-dot-10-references-for-names
author: 
---

# 4.10 References for Names: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 4 activities page

---
[Return to Module 4 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-4 "Module 4")

## 4.10 References for Names

There are numerous reference books and online sources available for checking both the spelling of names and the name order. Unfortunately there are also many problems associated with using these sources. One pitfall is using a non-authoritarian name source such as Wikipedia or sending an inquiry to one of the online discussion groups. While there can be some excellent nuggets of information gleamed from online discussion groups, they can also often be a source of misinformation. The credibility problem is similar to shouting out a question to a large crowd of people and then accepting any shouted-back answer as being valid. Any information gained through online discussion groups needs to be strenuously examined to establish validity.

A second problem is that name references are notoriously inconsistent and, depending on what reference is selected, the results can greatly differ. An examination of four different name references shows these results, both the listing and any related cross-references, first for Vincent van Gogh, and then for St. Thomas Aquinas.

Van Gogh, Vincent  
Gogh, Vincent Van. See Van Gogh, Vincent  
_Chambers Biographical Dictionary_

van Gogh, Vincent  
Gogh, Vincent van. See van Gogh, Vincent  
_Cambridge Biographical Encyclopedia_

Gogh, Vincent van  
LOC (Library of Congress)

Gogh, Vincent Willem van  
_Merriam-Webster Biographical Dictionary_

Aquinas, St. Thomas  
_Chambers Biographical Dictionary_

Aquinas, St. Thomas  
_Cambridge Biographical Encyclopedia_

Thomas, Aquinas, Saint

\*  
LOC (Library of Congress)  
\*note comma inserted after "Thomas"

Aquinas, Saint Thomas. See Thomas Aquinas  
Thomas Aquinas  
_Merriam-Webster Biographical Dictionary_

An informal survey of several editors, from different U.S. university presses, established the Merriam-Webster's Biographical Dictionary as their number one choice. Unfortunately, this reference is currently out of print, and there are no plans for new editions though used copies can still be purchased.

So what is the poor indexer to do when faced with a messy combination of inconsistent name references and lacking the subject-matter expertise to discern how to sort historical names? Fortunately, in most cases the author can be an excellent resource for the indexer. University press authors are typically SMEs (subject-matter experts) in their own field. Quite often the text will include clues related to the sort order. Remember that the index must be consistent with the name version, including spelling, used by the author in the text. And the indexer can, and should, query the editor and author regarding any questions they may have about the names.

### Books (not an exhaustive list)

AACR2 _(Anglo-American Cataloguing Rules, Second Edition)_

_Chambers Biographical Dictionary_

_Cambridge Biographical Encyclopedia_

_Dictionary for Art and Artists_

_Merriam-Webster Biographical Dictionary_

_New Oxford Dictionary of English_

_Webster's Biographical Dictionary_

### Online Sources

[The Library of Congress (Links to an external site.)](http://www.loc.gov/)

[Trove (Links to an external site.)](http://trove.nla.gov.au/)  
National Library of Australia

[HURIDOCS (Human Rights Monitoring and Documentation Series) (Links to an external site.)](https://huridocs.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/howtorecordnames-eng.pdf)
