---
created: 2022-09-06T15:11:33 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/4-dot-3-indexing-specifications-issues
author: 
---

# 4.3 Indexing Specifications Issues: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 4 activities page

---
[Return to Module 4 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-4 "Module 4")

## 4.3 Indexing Specifications Issues

_Adapted from the "Getting It Right" workshop by Sylvia Coates_

Before beginning any new indexing project, you'll need to make a few decisions regarding specifications. Clients will sometimes have a style guide prepared, but it is not unusual for them to give you instructions verbally or through e-mail. Here is a handy checklist you can use to make sure that you cover all of the pertinent issues during your communication with the client.

1.  Are main headings or only proper nouns to be capitalized?
2.  What is the cross-reference format?
3.  What is the page locator format?
4.  How will display material (tables, illustrations, photographs, maps, figures) be treated?
5.  How will footnotes or endnotes be designated in the index?
6.  Consider subheading levels -- will there be one level of subheadings or two levels, using sub-subheadings?
7.  What sorting order will be used: letter-by-letter or word-by-word?
8.  What index structure format will be used: run-in, indented, or blended style?
9.  Will there be a letter heading or extra space between alphabetic groups in the index?
10.  How much space is available for the index? Are there any space limitations that the indexer needs to be aware of for the project? (We'll discuss this important issue in a later module.)
11.  Are there any other special considerations for the index? For example: British or U.S. English spelling and punctuation? Special formatting of any kind (author names, titles, definitions in bold, diacritics)? What will be the treatment of function words in main headings: are they to be ignored in the sort or inverted?
    
    _A Tale of Two Cities_ (Dickens)  
    _Tale of Two Cities, A_ (Dickens)
    
12.  Delivery of index: is e-mail attachment of an RTF file expected? If not, what type of file does the editor require? Are there any special coding requirements for the file, including any for diacritics (accent marks)?
