---
created: 2022-09-06T15:12:04 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/4-dot-4-scripture-and-locorum-indexes
author: 
---

# 4.4 Scripture and Locorum Indexes: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 4 activities page

---
[Return to Module 4 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-4 "Module 4")

## 4.4 Scripture and Locorum Indexes

_Adapted from the "Getting It Right" workshop by Sylvia Coates_

### Scripture Indexes

Religious studies text may require a separate scripture index. The client will specify whether scripture citations inside parentheses, in addition to those in the regular text, are to be included in the scripture index. Typically, if no separate scripture index is requested, then only the scripture citations in the text, and not inside the parentheses, will be included in the subject index. Just as in author/name indexes (described in Topic 4.6), only page locators and not subheadings are included in scripture indexes.

Scripture indexes are not sorted like other indexes. Instead of letter-by-letter or word-by-word sorting, they are sorted by Biblical book order. And special care must be made to use the specific Biblical book order required by the client. The Roman Catholic Bible and the King James Version have slightly different book orders, and those are only two possible Bible versions. Always check with the editor regarding which Bible version you are to use for the sort order. The best reference for biblical studies and related disciplines is [_The SBL Handbook of Style_  (Links to an external site.)](https://www.amazon.com/Handbook-Style-Society-Biblical-Literature/dp/1589839641/ref=sr_1_sc_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1512272485&sr=8-1-spell&keywords=The+SBL+Handlbook+of+style)(second edition)

Here's an example of a scripture citation:

Genesis 41:1-32, 53-55

(Genesis is the book name; 41 is the chapter; 1-32 are verses; 53-55 are the page references where this citation is discussed in the text.)

Here's an example of a scripture index that uses the King James Version to determine book order:

Genesis 41:1-32, 53-55  
Deuteronomy 4:7, 23  
Psalms 95, 202-203  
St. Matthew 21:33-46, 132-135  
Acts 7:32, 56  
Ephesians 10:13, 88  
Revelation 6:8, 102-103

If the editor has not requested a separate scripture index, then any scripture citations included in the subject index will be sorted as per the subject index -- that is, either the letter-by-letter or word-by-word method. Indexing religious studies in general can be challenging and I’m delighted to share a wonderful resource, _Scripture and Ancient Sources Indexing_, complied and maintained by Potomac Indexing. With their permission, here is the link [https://potomacindexing.com/scripture-and-ancient-sources-indexing/?utm\_source=rss&utm\_medium=rss&utm\_campaign=scripture-and-ancient-sources-indexing (Links to an external site.)](https://potomacindexing.com/scripture-and-ancient-sources-indexing/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=scripture-and-ancient-sources-indexing). The .pdf is free and available for download and, as mentioned, periodically updated.

### Locorum Indexes

A locorum index is used for classical citations in a text. A press will normally have its preferred format. Below are three examples of locorum index formats. These examples all begin with the author (Homer), the book (_Iliad_ or _Odyssey_), the section number, and the line number of the section where the quote is found. The last numbers are, of course, the reference locators of the text being indexed.

Homer, Iliad: II, 4-5, 77...............100  
Homer, Iliad: VI, 327.....................97  
Homer, Odyssey: XII, 2.................33

Homer, Iliad: II, **4-5**, **77**, 100; VI, 327, 97  
Homer, Odyssey: XII, **2**, 33

Homer  
   Iliad: II, _4-5_, 77, 100; VI, 327, 97  
   Odyssey: XII, _2_, 33

In the second two examples above, the line number can be formatted either in italics or in bold.
