---
created: 2022-09-30T12:50:57 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/7-dot-6-indexing-project-2
author: 
---



# 7.6 Indexing Project 2: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 7 activities page

---
[Return to Module 7 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-7 "Module 7")

## 7.6 Indexing Project 2

In this assignment, you will create your second full-length index. The text, [On Incivility, Its Impact, and Directions for Future Research](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565897/download?wrap=1 "unit07griffin.pdf")

\[PDF\] by Christine M. Pearson and Christine Porath, is out of a multi-authored professional-level book on organizational behavior.  Note that you will be writing this index as a stand-alone index and not as part of a larger index. The indexing specifications are as follows:

-   Use word-by-word sorting.
-   Capitalize all main headings.
-   Index all author citations, including those inside the parentheses.
-   Include first and middle initials of author names instead of spelled out first names. Format the initials by using one space between two initials and no space between three initials. For example: Doe, J. E. _but_ Doe, J.E.A.
-   Include the authors of the article in the index but only on the page or pages that the names actually appear on. Please note that different presses have differing guidelines regarding the treatment of article author names.
-   Make a combined author and subject index.
-   Use a run-in style.
-   Use unsquashed page references.
-   Use only one level of subheadings (no sub-subheadings).
-   Complete the indexing assignment using CINDEX, MACREX, or SKY. (Select the one software that you would like to use for this assignment.)
-   Save the file in rich text format and attach it to your assignment submission. Be sure to include your name and course number in the name of the document: "your name X477 Pearson-Porath.rtf".
-   Remember to query the editor regarding any discrepancies in the text, or put red flags on text errors.
-   Format references as in the example below:

Main heading: subheading; subheading;  
   subheading. _See also_ Cross reference

Main heading. _See_ Main heading

### Full-Page Repagination

Once you have prepared your index and are ready to send the file to your instructor, there is one more task to accomplish. Save your original index file, the one that is to be sent to your instructor, and then prepare a second file, which you will now repaginate.

There are times when an editor will notify an indexer that there has been a reflow in the pages, which will affect the text pagination and, in turn, will affect the index locators. There can be many reasons for a reflow, including additional text or illustrated figures added by the author, an addition or deletion of a text page, or simply a renumbering of the pages. While these kinds of changes most often occur prior to the index being prepared, at times such a change will occur after the index has been written. In that case the indexer will be asked to repaginate the index to reflect the repagination of the text. Fortunately for indexers the three major indexing software programs, CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY can all make this seemingly overwhelming task a simple one.

- [ ] #task The last step of this assignment is to create a second repaginated index file.

Using the same indexing software that you have used to prepare your Pearson-Porath index, repaginate the index file so that the text begins on page 406 (instead of the current page 403) and ends on page 428 (instead of the current page 425, which includes the reference pages). Using your indexing software this process should only take a few minutes. Be sure to spot check your repaginated index file to confirm that you have successfully repaginated the file. Create an .rtf file named "Repaginated Pearson-Porath" in order to distinguish it from your original "Pearson-Porath" file, then send both files to your instructor. Please note that this assignment requires a simple full-page repagination.

### Partial-Page Reflow

There are times when an indexer may be asked to repaginate a partial-page reflow. A partial-page reflow means that instead of the entire page being moved only a portion of the page has been shifted. This partial-page reflow requires a more complicated repagination process. You will not be asked to perform a partial page repagination for this assignment but, just for your information, indexing software can facilitate this task as well. Depending on the situation you can approach partial page repagination different ways. For the sake of this example, let us suppose that ten pages of Chapter 5 have been changed due to one paragraph of text added to the first page by the author. The added paragraph has shifted portions of each of the ten pages beginning with the page to which the paragraph has been added to the end of the chapter. The next chapter has not been affected by this added text, and so the repagination will only affect the last ten pages of Chapter 5.

1.  Reconfigure the index entries from an alphabetized sorted list to a page order numbered list (each indexing software program has a feature for this task). This will allow you to see the entries listed as they were entered from each page. So all of the entries from page one will be listed first, followed by the entries entered from page two, three, and so forth.
2.  If you are working from PDFs open both the original and the repaginated PDFs on your computer screen. If you prefer to work from printed page proofs, set up the printed pages of both the original and the repaginated pages next to one another.
3.  Now, visually compare the original and repaginated pages with the entries listed in page number order. It will be easy to spot which entries need to have their locators changed.
4.  Change the locators as needed to reflect the shifted text of the repaginated pages.
5.  In order to be able to track the changed locators during the repagination process, you may want to "mark" the new locators. This can be done in several ways, for example, by using the color labeling feature (available in both CINDEX and SKY) or by adding designated characters to the changed locators. The designated characters can be, for example, "1000" or anything else distinctive enough to stand out in the entry. These characters can then be stripped out or deleted after the repagination has been completed using either a macro (all three programs allow macros to be written) or the search and replace feature of the indexing software.
6.  Reconfigure the page number order index to either the word-by-word or letter-by-letter alphabetized sort as required by the client.
7.  Spot check your index file to make sure that the changed locators are correctly listed in the reconfigured index file.
8.  Prepare the .rtf file as usual and send the index file to the client.

Remember that this is only one approach to repaginating a partial-page reflow, and other ways can be used depending on the repagination situation. Each repagination project will be unique and require an approach tailored for that specific project though the basic processes remain the same as those described above.

[Submit Project 2 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460030 "Indexing Project 2")
