# Day summary
Got back note from teacher on Green index. Here's what I posted on tumblr:

"When the assignment instructions said “query your ‘client’ if you have any questions”, I was *not* expecting to get back a reply from the teacher when I did that telling me “I don’t have any more information about this assignment than you do” 

Not sure what’s going on behind the scenes there but I’m definitely getting the impression that everyone is abdicating any power or responsibility they have as hard as possible, and, tbh, I’m guessing it’s because the person in charge of all the other teachers is pulling the same bs she did with me"

And...yeah. Going to need to do some mental adjustments to shift from regarding these people as authorities to realizing that the ones with responsibility are denying they have authority and the ones without it are lashing out at people. 

It's been really destabilizing! I'm not sure I want to continue doing this. But I guess I don't have a lot of other choices, and I do want to finish the course. I kind of want to scream "I'm asking you these questions because I know you're going to grade me on my choices". 

I think the field is probably full of people who do things in very different ways and believe that whatever thing they did is obviously the best one. I think publishers must know this, and it probably leads them to devalue indexes. 

Sigh. 

Also, fucking sucks that there's no schedule, so I can't avoid the course creator. 

It basically comes down to this: if you are grading me, and I am to query you with questions about what you want, you are supposed to answer them. I mean I'm definitelly getting a "stop asking questions" vibe here and like. this is my learning experience! this is where I'm getting training! why are you evading me!

Unless, of course, it's all just a joke and what they're teaching us doesn't matter...

This is just so weird and so demotivating. Like, they evade direct questions, but then when I guess I get it wrong—so I'm supposed to rely on my intuition but also *not* rely on my intuition... Like, you're not reinforcing me either for good stuff or helping me avoid doing stuff wrong, just punishing me when I get it wrong! It is incredibly demotivating!

The problem is I keep treating them *like they know more than I do*

And there are ways in which they do, but not about the things I need to know. I just feel like it's very "stop bothering me", not "I want actively engaged students". 

They're not going to be your intellectual friends. *They're not going to be your intellectual friends.* ***They're not going to be your intellectual friends. Not them, not other indexers. ***


-----

not sure how to go about getting any enthusiasm back. I just feel mentally dead. and kind of like when I read indexing stuff everything's not being said. and like. nobody knows what's going on, nobody knows the answers to the things I'm asking about or even sees what I see. 

anyway I will give myself 2 weeks to finish up the Green index. I feel angry and tired. 



# Health
GOt period today. Left side headache went away fro a bit them came back after sitting back down and working agian. closing right eye seems to fix it. 

# Internal check-in




------
