# Day summary
Yesterday saw optometrist. Getting new glasses. 

# Health
Yesterday optometrist said that my vertical heterophoria got a little better, but my eso(phoria? tropia?) worsened. Apparently it's 4.5. I'm worried it's because she's correcting it, and also it's weird that I never noticed problems from it until she started correcting for it. 

I mentioned the eye pain until head click thing to the assistant, and she immediately said that sometimes the glasses help for a while and then it gets worse, and I said I'm describing the opposite of that, and she changed the subject. I guess she was telling me that it wasn't okay for something else to happen? idk, but I didn't bother bringing it up with the optometrist. 

Pretty sure after this pair of glasses I'm going to wind up consulting someone who does vision therapy because my doctor hasn't even mentioned that it exists. 

# Internal check-in
Still avoiding self? Yeah yeah don't want to be in this situation, trapped in this life. In this house. Stuck. Can't move forward no kids no family can't just decide. Like trying to take a vacation,I don't know what I want. Because I can't imagine wanting to do something new - why would I do that when I've spent this much time trying to get my experiences and lifedown to somethign manageable? I'm not novelty seeking anymore, in many ways. Because I know it won't solve the problem (the physical issues from eye problems and pain, the chronic attempts by life to manipulate me into the shameable position). 



------
