# Day summary
Going to get vyvanse. Have not decided if I'll attend Chet Chat; feeling kind of overexposed / like I'm pushign myself on others, after the weird interaction at office hours last night (Sylvia Coates thought the proofreading/copyediting line was obvious, and seemed to think that either the instructions made it clear it was an excerpt of a larger index or thought that it didn't matter, and was unaware of the lack of grammatical parallelism in the main heading, and then asked all the other people present about themselves but did not ask me—though it's possible that was because I mentioned it on a previous week). Michael was helpful talking about that, somewhat surprisingly. 

Right after it happened I wasn't able to socialize with other students because I was just so sandbagged. I felt hot and dizzy. I may have been a little rude to the prof by saying I would stop there, but I did manage to thank her. 

I'm noticing a new tendency to just immediately drop things and give in as soon as there's a major rupture by an authority figure. I think other people might have a way to politely keep pushing and let them save face, but I don't think I have the capacity to do that right now. On the up side, I'm not arguing with them. I guess I do think I'm kind of...letting them humiliate themselves, and making the relationship look unrepairable, in the same way that I feel like I've been treated as unreasonable/high-power by others. But the difference here is that the teacher genuinely does have power, and I didn't. 

# Health
Yesterday: the pressure point by my low left nose let up after pushing on something near my low back left temple. Don't know if that lifted something and let the nose thing drain, or what. 

Skipped allergy med last night. I do feel less congested today. Will see if it holds up. I also sneezed a lot this morning, though it's stopped. 

# Internal check-in
Did some journaling yesterday on system situation and on frustration with lack of consistency/stability in ability to known and understand what's going on inside. Seemed to feel taken seriously. Don't know if it helped. 

I'd like to listen better but the thing that keeps me from doing isn't a concscious process. I don't know how to lift it. Maybe someone does, but it's not me. And I'm worried that the hope that someone does is really just a hope that there's some persuadable agent causing my problems. 



------
