# Day summary
Got a mammogram; went to post office, but only shipped the little journal for endever because they couldn't hold the iPad at the post office because they have to ship it ground because of the battery. 

I wish I'd been softer in my response to Jolanta telling her one of the book club articles wasn't downloading right - I didn't mean to be harsh at all, I just didn't really think through it and sent it hastily. Tried to retract it but too late. 

I did a quick tech support reply to a student in the forums and my response got (auto?) graded as "incomplete" because it was a homework forum. Oops. I'm going to try to have patience and wait till I get the graded index back before posting more. 

I worked on the proofreading index assignment yesterday and am going to wait to talk to the teacher Thursday in office hours before I turn it in, since I'm not sure of the line between proofreading and copyediting. I should also read through the materials again, though, and do the Mulvany readings. 

# Health
This morning (last night?) did lots of lymph node massage. Then in bed...something deep in head went click, and then a second small click, and now I feel way way better and my vision seems to be 3-d again even though it's blurry! More evidence for potential issues that nasal realignment could maybe adjust, though I need to do more research. 

Got a mammogram. It said I have heterogenously to extremely dense breast tissue, which can decrease the sensitivity of the exam, but that everything looks fine. 

It felt weirdly like going to a spa, apart from being almost completely deserted. 

# Internal check-in




------
