# Day summary


# Health
Last night head filled up, didn't get sleepy, again. I'm not that sleepy today though - maybe I'm starting to need even less sleep? Headache is getting rough, though. Going to try patching one eye for a while. 

I did the Perrin technique last night it just kept...feeling thick and mucousy and swollen in my head. Could have been dehydrated maybe. 

# Internal check-in
We've pretty clearly become phobic of looking inside and listening. Because it's just this morass of responding to abandonment with pain. Because we don't know how to talk. Because it's just so stressful and confusing. Because we feel like there's no place for us in this life. 

We're not going to have an option to relax and be multiple people because that's premised on the notion that they'll let us even be *one* of us and we know how badly that's gone. People drift away. And yes, it really is difficult. I feel like we're always realizing more how much we've lost.  

I think it would be treated as an attempt to sneak being ourself in through the back door. 

Because of. really not understanding until this last year and a half that it's not a joke not an accident not a misunderstanding, we're just really not wanted and at best tolerated. 

always thinking people will like us because we show up with something to contribute, as if the problem were free riders. but the problem is comfort. 

the thing is, it worked! there were times and places in which it worked! until the last couple years when nothign worked anymore. it's like no one cares about goals or projects or anything, all they want is someone who will be rewarding to be around right now, but not in a tangible way like by providing sympathy or support or giving them what they ask for. they want something more inherent, more core, something involuntary. 

and I can speculate on what my role is but I think, actually, that there really isn't a role. it isn't what I do or how I respond. it's what I am. 

I want to volunteer! I want to help! I want to support! In any way that doesn't tail being the convenient sponge for others' anger and contempt! 



------
