# Day summary
Michael was not in bed when I woke up around four-thirty. He came out of his room around 6:45 or 7. I asked him if he'd been to bed; he said briefly. I asked him if everything was okay. He said enthusiastically(?) yes (it didn't really feel genuine to me; it felt like denial on his part). I asked him if he was coming to bed. He said no. I gave up and said "I won't ask you any more questions." 

I went to the [[The Indexing Companion - book club notes Oct 31, 2022]]. As you can see it wasn't great. I shared a thing that was improtant to me (about usability approach) and got an "it's talked about" response. Anyway I need to be very careful about how I participate there too. Don't bring in anythign about myself; don't make any indication that could be interpreted as a challenge by someone hypersensitive to challenge and already dealing with unconstrained off-topic attendees. Pick out a couple very narrowly focused textual quotations to comment on. 

She did not do introductions. I resent that. Why not? 

Lay in bed for a while before talking to Michael. Imagined vividly what it would be like to be in a place where someone loved me and where I could relax into that. 

I don't like having to maintain everyone else's boundaries. 

Ok, why don't I just straight up say it here: indexing is ridiculously self-focused and all too often unconnected to even the user research that actually exist. It is not user-focused, but people will selectively appeal to user needs to justify some decisions and not others. This is very obvious! Especially given that we have, like, one journal and all the readings are from it. Some of the structural reasons are obvious; the fact that indexers don't typically collaborate also leads to a lack of information flow even within indexing. Generally, people have way too sophisticated a view of the reader's likelihood of knowing what indexers do. An index is not a work of goddamn art, it's a tool that most people won't even use. People who use it want to be able to look up a term and go straight to it. The rest of this stuff is us decorating our work unnecessarily to create value. 


# Health
Did some perrin this morning and it helped a surprisingly lot—specifically, low-back stuff with abdominal cramping. Did for butt/hips and abdomen and that was helpful too. 

# Internal check-in




------
