# Day summary
Glenn and Basia's wedding yesterday. Failed to recognize Cara until she spoke to me. Her hair had darkened and she looks like she aged an extra ten years. Failed to recognize Murph until he came up next to her and started talking: he had a beard. Still hot as hell. His voice sounds like it's aged a little, but it's an amazing voice. He looks at least ten years younger than she does. 

Cara is a therapist. I can see her being a therapist; she's very much the kind of I-know-better-than-you-do person who would do that. 

Still blows my mind that he's happy with her. He's just so nice! And she's just so subtly jerky. 

Basia had an amazing dress. 

Maya was afraid of the escalator at first but then she loved it on the way back. Today I ran into her and she said "I want up" and then mentioned the escalator and then said "Go!"

I am very glad it is over, even though I enjoyed parts of it a lot. 

I watched people forming a dancing circle on the dance floor and thought about how I wished I felt that kind of included, and how if I had grown up going to school with reasonably supportive parents I might have had access to cultural experiences like that. 

# Health
Mild headache at left upper neck returned during dinner. Had some caffeine again around 9am today. Used voltaren gel all over face last night. I think it's draining now. Hope it's not temporary. 

Still taking B1; not sure whether it's helping. I have noticed that it seems to help with the all-over ouchiness, and it's made me able to tell that it is pressure tha's the problem. 

I think I may have put my neck out? SOmetimes it really feels like being out is the problem, and it is; sometimes it feels like being out is the problem and it's not. 

I want to try doing the Perrin technique twice a day, more thoroughly. I hate that I have to mess up my hair doing it though. 


# Internal check-in




------
