# Sourdough ben and claire
Growing it from scratch is possible, but is a project out of scope for these instructions. Google it. That said: The night before, combine 300g healthy, active starter, 600g water, 18g salt and 1kg flour in a large mixing bowl. Mix by hand until combined, then cover and wait for 30-60 minutes. Then stretch and fold once in each of four directions. You should feel it firm up a lot as the glutin develops. Cover again and wait overnight. The next day, when it has risen quite a bit, flour a counter or other work surface and carefully transfer the dough to it. Fold it over the left and right or top and bottom to get a mostly floured, elongated cylinder of dough. Cut it in half. To shape into loaves, you are going to want to fold over gently in each of four directions, pinch it together, and flip it over. This takes a little practice and is easier to explain in pictures unfortunately. Cover with a clean kitchen towell or similar, and wait maybe 30 -45 minutes, preheating an oven to 475 f. When you are done waiting, slash the tops of the loaves a couple times with a very sharp knife. A serrated one can work well. Then transfer them into any kind of covered oven safe cooking dishes like a dutch oven or enameled roasting pan, on a little parchment paper if you have it. Cover and put in the oven, reducing heat to 450. After 20 minutes, uncover. After another 20 minutes, lower temperature to 350, remove the bread from the cooking dishes and place directly on the rack. In 10 minutes, take it out and let it cool. Your bread is done.

#z-archives/1-journal