---
created: 2022-08-30T10:12:58 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/1-dot-2-what-is-an-index
author: 
---

# 1.2 What Is an Index?: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 1 activities page

---
[Return to Module 1 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-1 "Module 1")

## 1.2 What Is an Index?

_This topic is used by permission of Sylvia Coates. Portions of the material in it have appeared in other publications._

Let us answer this question by first stating what an index is not. An index is not simply a list or collection of terms. ==Instead, an index is an arrangement of topics and concepts structured into thematic relationships.== To visualize what an index is and is not, we will use as our text the familiar nursery rhyme _Humpty Dumpty._

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall.  
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.  
All the King's horses and all the King's men  
Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again.

Below is a collection of the Humpty Dumpty topics, creating a poorly constructed index.

the fall, 4-6  
Humpty Dumpty, 1-3, 4-6, 10-13  
King's horses, 7-9, 10-13  
King's men, 7-9, 10-13  
the wall, 1-3, 4-6

Notice that there are no relationships between any of the main headings. In addition, there are no subentries providing users with access to more specific information. Here's a stronger index of the Humpty Dumpty rhyme:

the fall  
   Kings' horses/men arrive following, 7-9  
   permanent nature of damage from, 10-13  
   suffered by Humpty Dumpty, 4-6

Humpty Dumpty  
   fall by, 4-6  
   permanent damage suffered by, 10-13  
   wall sitting by, 1-3

King's horses  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

King's men  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

the wall  
   Humpty Dumpty sitting on, 1-3  
   Humpty Dumpty's fall from, 4-6

Comparing these two indexes, you can see that the first index gives little information to the reader. In contrast, the second example allows the reader to target specific references that lead to precise text information.
