---
created: 2022-08-30T10:14:29 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/1-dot-4-subheadings-and-sub-subheadings
author: 
---

# 1.4 Subheadings and Sub-subheadings: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 1 activities page

---
[Return to Module 1 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-1 "Module 1")

## 1.4 Subheadings and Sub-subheadings

### Subheadings

Subheadings, sometimes called _subentries,_ immediately follow the main heading. They are used to break down the information under the main heading topic for the convenience of the reader. When a main heading is followed by more than five or six reference locators (usually page numbers), then it is best to divide those reference locators into subheadings of specific information, which makes it easier for the reader or user to locate the desired subtopic.

==Subheadings used in scholarly books are commonly required to have a grammatical relationship to main headings. Subheadings for textbook and science-oriented text, while obviously related to the main heading, may not necessarily need to be written with a grammatical relationship. Below are some examples.

#### Scholarly University Press Text

Greco-Roman classical world  
   beliefs on solar system motion by, 136, 139

#### Physics Textbook

Newtonian mechanics  
   second law on angular momentum, 313, 324-326  
   second law on force and mass, 86, 87-101  
   second law for systems, 217, 228

### Sub-subheadings

Sub-subheadings follow subheadings and divide the subheading topic into more precise divisions of information. ==Sub-subheadings are typically used for very dense (often science-oriented) material, such as medical texts, reference books, and computer documentation.

We will discuss and see examples of the index format of sub-subheadings in the next topic.
