---
created: 2022-08-30T10:23:36 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/1-dot-7-cross-references
author: 
---
==**_See under_ cross-references** are used instead of _see_ cross-references when the reader is being sent to a subentry instead of to a main heading. For example:

# 1.7 Cross-References: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 1 activities page

---
[Return to Module 1 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-1 "Module 1")

## 1.7 Cross-References

Cross-references tie the index together and are a crucial part of its structure. How the cross-reference guides the reader depends on what kind of cross-reference is used. I'll introduce four types here, and we'll discuss them at greater length in Module 2.

-   _See_ cross-reference
-   _See also_ cross-reference
-   General cross-reference
-   _See under_ cross-reference

**_See_ cross-references** are used when there is the possibility that a reader, while searching for a specific entry, may look up another version or wording of that entry. This cross-reference helps the reader locate the main heading that has been used in the index. For example:

cars. _See_ autos

**_See also_ cross-references** guide a reader to additional information related to a specific main heading topic. For example:

Difficult children  
   attachment theory on, 10-11  
   caring for, 30-36  
   _See also_ Misbehaving children

Misbehaving children  
   fostering social/emotional skills in, 152-158  
   key points for managing, 84, 159, 184  
   teacher belief systems regarding, 8-9  
   _See also_ Difficult children

The "Difficult children" and "Misbehaving children" main headings are on two different but related topics. The indexer assumes that readers interested in one of these topics will also be interested in looking up information on the other.

**General cross-references** are used when there are so many related topics that the main heading would end up with more than four or five _see also_ cross-references. The use of many _see also_ cross-references is both cumbersome and unsightly, and it is this problem that a general cross-reference can solve. For example:

Antibiotics  
   defining, 11  
   food preservation using, 199, 200  
   nonmedical uses of, 560  
   sold without prescriptions, 583  
   _See also specific antibiotics_

When it is necessary to use a general cross-reference with one or more _see also_ cross-references, the general cross-reference is placed last following theother _see also_ cross-references, regardless of alphabetical order.

Antibiotics  
   defining, 11  
   food preservation using, 199, 200  
   nonmedical uses of, 560  
   sold without prescriptions, 583  
   _See also_ Resistance; _and specific antibiotics_

Notice that in general cross-references, the entire entry is formatted in italics.

==**_See under_ cross-references** are used instead of _see_ cross-references when the reader is being sent to a subentry instead of to a main heading. For example:

Family health history. _See under_ Documentation

Documentation  
   chief complaint, 51  
   family health history, 52  
   identifying data, 61  
   past health history, 54-56  
   psychosocial history, 68
