---
created: 2022-08-30T10:24:37 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/1-dot-8-double-posted-entries
author: 
---

# 1.8 Double-Posted Entries: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 1 activities page

---
[Return to Module 1 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-1 "Module 1")

## 1.8 Double-Posted Entries

A good index will have more than one access point for important information. This is accomplished by double-posting the same information either as both a main heading and a subheading under another main heading, or as subheadings under more than one main heading, or even as two different forms of main headings. For example:

**Double-posted as two different main headings:**

auto rentals, 12, 15  
car rentals, 12, 15

**Double-posted as subentries under different main headings:**

emergency services, car rentals, 12, 15  
rentals, car, 12, 15  
transportation, car rentals for, 12, 15

When double-posting entries, it is important that the page references for all entries be consistent. Checking for page reference consistency in all double-posted entries is one of the editing tasks.

Another type of double-posting is for legal citations in the text. For example:

_Smith v. Brown,_ 6, 10  
_Brown, Smith v.,_ 6, 10

Notice that legal citations are always in italics and that, in this case, the entries are not simply reversed. _Brown v. Smith_ would be the appeal of _Smith v. Brown_ and therefore a different case altogether. The correct double-posted format for a legal citation is to invert the entry.
