# Mulvany (79-109)
79-­‐109 Chapter 4: “Main Headings” to end of chapter  

## Classification schemes
* Use thematic relations, not classification schemes
* If readers do not understand the classification scheme, they will not be able to locate relevant information.
* Remember that the B S 370o encourages the indexer to "group together information on subjects that is scattered by the arrangement of the document." Gathering together related information will sometimes result in the development of headings that appear to be classified. It is not difficult to imagine a context where the dogs entry above could prove very useful. For example, someone reading my autobiography might know that dogs played an important role in my life. If the dogs entry were eliminated from the index, the reader would have to know exactly what breeds of dogs to look for.
* Classified headings can also gather related info for the reader, to tell them what is in a book (e.g., operation systems: Mac OS, Windows, Linux) or to not require them to have to know specific subtopics (they know dogs are important but not which)
* Subtopic categorical subheadings (classified subheadings) don't prevent specific topics from having their own access points
* 

## Double-posting
* Gives readers multiple access points for info
* Takes up space
* Need to maintain consistency between them
* In the early stages of writing an index, indexers often create a *See* cross-reference and then later during the editing stage decide to double-post it. Best to double-post when it does not take up more space than a *See* reference. 

## Subheadings
* When there are more than five reference locators
* Often represent subdivisions or more specific aspects of the main heading
* Can be action-oriented (files: copying, creating, deleting, editing)
* The purpose of subheadings is to filter information about a topic further so readers can perform a more refined search for information.
* But they can be overdone: they do take up space and must be carefully evaluated. A list of subheadings all with the same page number should be condensed. 
* Do Mi Stauber (2004, 149-158) identifies five types of subheadings: categorical subheadings, subtopic categorical subheadings, relational subheadings, headings, descriptive-aspect subheadings, and feature subheadings.
### Forms of main headings and subheadings
#### Inversion
Personal names are often inverted, as are other types of terms (e.g., "holographic will": "wills, holographic")
#### Singular vs plural
* Countable are often in plural (books, dogs, mice; ask "how many?") and uncountable are singular (air, fertilizer, pepper, tea, wine; ask "how much?"). Don't do CD(s), do CDs; avoid excessive use of punctuation. 
* Maintain consistency: if you use CDs, use DVDs, not DVD.
* Remember sometimes singular/plural denote different meanings: writing is an activity, but writings are artistic works. 
* However, cookbook indexes often use parenthetic plurals for main headings so that they read properly whether a word is singular or plural, e.g. peach(es). But if recipe names are given in full as subheadings, parenthetic plurals aren't necessary; the main heading should be regular plural.
#### Parallel construction
* e.g., if you use gerunds (capitalizing, dividing), a participle is out of place (hyphenated).
* Note that parallel construction can be overdone; don't interfere with the meaning.
#### Homographs
* Same spelling, different meanings: add a qualifying phrase to the term (a parenthetical qualifier, or simply a qualifier). 
* Sometimes capitalization can clear up misinterpretations
#### Multiple terms in an entry
* As succinct as possible, but often additional terms are needed for clarity. 
* Frequently, ly, two distinct topics are discussed in tandem, and it may be appropriate to combine the terms and use a cross-reference. 
	* replace operations. See search-and-replace operations 
	* search-and-replace operations, 56-60
#### Adjectives and adverbs
* Generally they should not stand alone as an index entry, unless the term itself is the subject, like in a style guide. 
* When an adjective is combined with a noun, the noun phrase is referred to as a compound heading. 
#### Function words: articles, prepositions, and conjunctions
* Main headings: do not appear as part of, unless part of a formal name like a book title or geographic name
* However some indexes doe use them heavily as the first term
* All subheadings must be logically related to their main headings; however, some indexers feel they must have a grammatical relationship with their main headings too, such that they can be read as a complete phrase ("indentation: in bibliographics; of block quotations"). 
	* This can cause turnover lines when space is narrow
	* the trouble with these terms is primarily related to whether or not they shoudl be alphabetized; to sidestep, use only when absolutely necessary for clarity and put it at the end of the subheading (oak trees: irrigation and) 
* The logical style in contrast: "indentation: bibliographies; block quotations". Logical style proponents would argue the relationships are implied and need not be stated directly. 
* When the lack of a preposition creates an ambiguous subheading, use one: "management: by computers; of computers"
### Reference locators
* If >5, use subheadings or sub-subheadings. 
* Locators indicate the beginning and end of the discussion
* Present in ascending numeric order with roman numerals preceding arabic numbers
* Use an en dash to indicate a page range 
* Whenever possible, use all digits in full
* When discussion is scattered, use separate locators, not a page range
* A style guide may indicate if they want you to use a range for separate locators
* when chapter-page number pagination is used (i.e. using 5-7 to indicate page 7 of chapter 5) then instead of dashes use 5-7 to 5-9 (and note those are hyphens, not en dashes)
* When entries have locators for both numbered chapters and lettered appendixes, the appendix locators go second, in their order in the document. Similarly with other alphanumeric locators (STR-23, REF-1): follow their order in the document. 
#### Annotated page numbers
* distinguishing: some postfix the locator with fig, some italicize to save space and reduce the density of the reference locator
* Books with multiple illustrative materials often distinguish photographs, maps, and tables, for example, ph, map, t.
* In a heavily illustrated book, the same info may be better conveyed using descriptive subheadings (Palace of Fine Arts, 32, 38; architectural drawing of, 35; photographs of, 75–78)
* If a page has several illustrative items that are numbered, the number may be added to the annotation, e.g. 56(t12) or 56t.12 or 56t12. Footnotes may be done similarly. Endnotes are always cited by note number. 
* When there is more than one note cited by number on a page, the note numbers are separated by a comma. Some publishers require doing nn instead of n for multiple notes (55nn 23, 27 or 55nn. 23, 27). Could consider parentheses so as not to confuse with a page number: 55 (nn 23, 27) or 55 (nn. 23, 27). Or: 55n23, n27
* If there's only one footnote on a page no need to include footnote number, just n (no period)
* Case when an endnote has the content but the page citing it does not: 
	* Smith, Mary, 135, 387n18 - but page 135 doesnt' have her name so the reader can't find it. Mulvany suggests using a special locator format for teh page number: Smith, Mary, 45–49, [135n18], 228, 387n18. An introductory note would explain the use of square brackets. 
* When choosing a format for annotated reference locators, work with the production editor and a sample entry with both kinds of references to see what problems may arise
#### Column or quadrant identifiers
* In large format books with columns or quadrants, adding a column or quadrant number may help (abcd; abc). Can use for continuous discussion of a topic too (40a-43b). 
* However this can be confusing if other alphabetic identifiers are used for footnotes or illustrations. 
* Mention in the introductory note if using column or quadrant identifiers. 
#### Locators that are not page numbers
* Can allow indexing before page proofs are produced. 
* Section or paragraph numbers:
	* legal books commonly indexed by section number, with chapter/division expressed in hundreds (first section of ch2 is section 200). Sometimes it's more complicated and will make the index dense; do not hesitate to suggest a more compact locator format if it's feasible (for example omitting the section number symbol)
* Line numbers: if it's not consecutive (starts anew on each page) then you need another locator to add to the line number locator
	* eg 2:435 for line 435 of ch2
	* if it's new on each page then you have to include the page number
* Electronic media
### Cross-references
#### *See* and see under
* Primary function of *See*: vocabulary control. 
	* Controls scattering of info in an index
	* Anticipates language of index users
	* Reconciles language of document with users' language
* Used whenever it may be reasonably assumed reader will look up topic usign terminology not used in the index. 
* Common with multi-author works where different authors may use different terms. 
* Can also merge antonymns (unemployement: See employment and unemployment)
* Can handle slang
* Can lead to organizational names (Catholic Church --> Roman Catholic Church)
* Direct reader from an abbreviation or acronym to spelled-out version of the term
* Direct readers to a current geographic name 
* Or to/from a pseudonym
* Or from a maiden name to a married name (or vice versa)
* 
* See under: when a See refers to a subheading. Saves need to repeat entire main heading and subheading
	* Chicago style requires a colon for this: *See* currency: silver coins
* Don't overdo see references
	* Sometimes the text will note that one thing is better called another, making a cross reference appropriate
	* Indexer must carefully look for such hints in the text, but will also need to go beyond them
	* Evaluate them in terms of their usefulness - it's irritating to be sent from one place to another to only get 1-2 page references, so often better to double-post in those instances, if no subheadings are involved. 
	* Often an indexer will start with a see reference and then during editing decide whether a double-posting would be better
#### See also and see also under
* To guide users to related and additional info at another heading, when users may be expected to miss additional and related information ("additional" is crucial here)
* May be two-way. 
* It's not indexer's job to make all relationships explicit; can assume readers have enough savvy to discern obvious relationships
* See also under is for when that exact subheading is repeated under a different heading
#### General cross-references
* If you need to include a lot for a single entry, sometimes the problem is that the main heading is too vague
* But sometimes you need to refer someone to an entire class of things (commands: *See also individual command names*)
* The words that form the general cross-reference are set in italics, thus indicating that the reader will not find that specific term in the index
* When general cross-references accompany specific ones, put the general ones last even if out of alphabetic order
##### Completeness of cross-refrences
* Should it be cited in its complete form? Exercise common sense, for example you may not need/want to fully spell out the definition of an acronym.
* But don't sacrifice clarity; for example, See LIST (command) vs see LIST (text tag) - important to include the parens so they know which one to go to. 
* Check with the publisher, as there's disagreement on how to do this. 
##### Directness of cross-references
* These should be one-step links pointing directly to info; don't send readers on a cross-reference trail 
##### Multiple cross-references
* Separate with semi-colons, not commas: *See also* reference books; trade books
* Commas may be used to reference a subheading: see dogs, whelping of (Chigao requires a colon though). This is an alternative to "see under"
##### Blind and circular cross-references
Blind = cross-reference refers to a nonexistent entry
Circular: refer to each other
##### Reference locators and cross-references
* A cross-reference never has a reference locator associated with it, since it is a guide to elsewhere in teh index, not to a location in the text.  

# Mulvany (113-127)
113-­‐127 All of Chapter 5  
How to handle nonletter characters like spaces, punctuation marks, comma, exclamation point, numbers. 
The most cogent discussion of arrangement schemes is found in NISO TRo3: Guidelines for the Alphabetical Arrangement of Letters and Sorting of Numerals and Other Symbols (iggg).
## Order of Characters 
1. Space precedes any other character.
	1. hyphen treated as a space
	2. dash treated as a space
	3. slash treated as a space 
2. These punctuation marks are ignored:
	1. period/full stop .
	2. comma ,
	3. colon :
	4. parentheses ()
	5. square brackets [ ]
	6. angle brackets < >
	7. braces { } 
	8. apostrophe '
	9. quotation marks " "
	10. exclamation mark !
	11. question mark ?
3. Symbols other than numerals, letters, and punctuation marks precede numerals and letters.
4. Numerals precede letters.
5. Letters follow numerals.

## Word-by-Word Alphabetizing 
* If all those rules are applied you get word-by-word alphabetizing, which keeps together headings beginning with the same word or words. 
* However, ALA and Library of Congress filing rulles and Chicago are in consistent with each other

## Letter-by-Letter Alphabetizing
* Ignores rule 1 (spaces preceding all other characters). Alphabetizing continues across the entry as though all letters are run together. 
* This keeps *on line files*, *on-line files*, and *online files* together. 
## Basic Rules Affecting Both Alphabetizing Orders 
* Arabic or roman numerals are sorted numerically, not alphabetically, and are generally placed before the alphabetic entries. 
* Diacritical marks are usually ignored; treat it as its English equivalent. If doing otherwise, use an introductory note. 
## Other Alphabetizing Guidelines
### The University of Chicago Press
* [see Chicago style]
### Columbia University Press 
* Prefers letter-by-letter, but is not the same as Chicago style. 
* "stops the sorting after a punctuation mark"
* Ignores rules 1, 1a, and 2a–k. 
* Adds a new rule: Hyphens used in compound words are ignored; other hyphens stop the sorting. 
### ISO 999
* Like Chicago, allows for special treatment of entries that include qualifiers in parentheses
* Preference for word-by-word alphabetizing
* (8.1) All characters and symbols normally have a filing value. 
	* Punctuation symbols used to distinguish types of index heading may be given special values in order to sort the headings in the order required. 
	* The value given to a blank space will depend on whether letter-by-letter letter or word-by-word order is required. 
* (8.2) Index headings consisting of more than one word should be filed by the word-by-word method, in which a space files before a letter. 
	* An alternative arrangement, letter-by-letter, disregards such characters as the space and dash. 
* (8.5) Index headings beginning with the same terms should be filed in the following sequence: 
	* term with or without subheadings; 
	* term with qualifier; 
	* term as first element of longer term.
### Summary of Arrangement Preferences 
* Table 5.1 on location 1482
## Nonalphabetic Arrangement in Indexes
Consider whether the nonalphabetic arrangement will make entries easier for readers to locate.  
### Function Words: Articles, Prepositions, and Conjunctions
* Most commonly not alphabetized; sorted by the following word instead 
* See publisher's style guide
* Controversial
* Sometimes is useful, for example in legal indexing using "against", "from", and "to"
* In main headings:
	* If the first term is an article (like a, the) do not alphabetize it. It may be displayed as "Tale of Two Cities, A" or "A Tale of Two Cities" or "Tale of Two Cities" (the latter common to save space). Since it's not a bibliography it's not required to enter titles in their complete form. 
	* If the first term is a preposition or conjunction, alphabetize it (e.g., Of)
	* If an article, preposition, or conjunction is in any other position but the first, always alphabetize it
### Words That Are Spelled Alike
* Some style guides require person, place, and thing to be in that order; others require filing a title after a thing. But, most users don't know this rule exists and will think the indexer made a mistake, or will miss the entry
* Chicago says arrange in normal alphabetical order; if they have different meanings, add a qualifier
### Chronological/ Page Number Order for Subheadings
* For example, order of career title progress in a biography, or geographic epochs
* But some publishers require them to be sorted in page number order
* Indexers wishing to index biographies will benefit from consulting Hazel Bell's Indexing Biographies and Other Stories of Human Lives (2004).
* Think about the knowledgeability of the reader. 
* When subheadings are sorted in page number order, the demand for clear and structured term selection disappears. Since the entries will not be sorted alphabetically, the wording of the entries is less important. The subheadings still must convey a clear sense of the material cited, but the demand on the indexer to pull the most important term forward for sorting is eliminated. But the demand on the reader, who must stumble through often long lists of subheadings, is greatly increased.
## How to Choose an Arrangement Order
* Use indexing software to view it both in word-by-word and letter-by-letter and see which looks better
* If an index has a lot of names, word-by-word is often better to keep groups of similar names together
* In disciplines with multipart phrases, word-by-word may be best [I think this may be a typo? not sure]
* Technical indexes often benefit from letter-by-letter sort, especially when the language is not standardized (email, e mail, e-mail, with readers possibly looking for any one)
* Word-by-word advocates argue that it gathers like terms together; letter-by-letter argue that readers are more familiar with letter-by-letter because it's used oftein in dictionaries, encylopedias, and directories
* In many indexes it won't make much of a difference
* Use common sense when deciding to arrange subheadings non-alphabetically. If you want chronological order, don't confuse it with page number order

# Mulvany (192-217): Format and Layout of the Index
192-­‐217 All of Chapter 8  
## Overall index style
* Same typeface as body text by often two points smaller
* eg text is 10-point TNR with 12-point leading, and index is 8-point TNR with 10-point leading (leading = amt of space between lines)
* Often two columns per page
* Body text often right-justified, but index is almost always ragged right, which is easier to proof, type, and read when columns are narrow
## Indented style
* Also called setout, hierarchical, outline, or line-by-line style
* Often each level indented another 1em
* Turnover, wraparound, or runover lines
## Run-in style
* The only reason to use this is to save space. 
* Should be used only when there's one level of subheadings, but that's not always followed
* If an index is mostly main entries, the space saved is negligible
* Try doing it both ways in software and seeing how much space is saved
## Other styles
* Use other styles only with caution
* Some legal books have a specific style
* Indexes with three levels sometimes use indented for the subheadings and run-in for the sub-subheadings
* Generally don't use locators flush right preceded by locator dots; she has only done once when both entries and locators were cryptical and it made it easier to visually parse with them separated
* For an interesting discussion of typography and the layout of indexes see Nan Ridehalghs (1985) article, "The Design of Indexes." The article provides examples of many typographic and design sign elements in printed indexes and delves into the history of some of these considerations.

## Cross-reference format and placement
Many, many variations exist. 
### See cross-references
* Generally run off from the main heading; may or may not be capitalized; almost always italic; punctuation varies
* Avoid nesting parentheses when possible
* For subheadings, usually in parentheses
* If you have a subheading crossref at the last position followed by a crossref for the entire entry, you want to be able to visually distinguish them
### See also cross-references
* Can be place either at the top of the entry or following the final subheading
* If main headings don't have page numbers, then See also at the main heading can save space; if they do, it can result in a turnover line
* Arguments for at bottom: it doesn't distract readers; it's visually less complex; it's less important and should come last
* Arguments for the top: readers should be immediately informed of info; they may not see it at the end of the list
* Whichever you pick, use it consistently throughout the index
* Many formats (see examples in book)
### General cross-references
* Covered earlier. All in italic.
### Cross-references to entries in italic
* Not italic when precedes italics; italic when follows italics

## Special typography
* Keep simple
* Often italics for an illustration, bold for locators that indicate where the reader can find definitions or substantial discussion of a term
* Sometimes computer books used monospace for commands
* Main headings in bold type can enhance usability in indexes with a preponderance of subheadings
* Talk to the editor about it as early as possible

## Final submission formats
Extremely important to understand how the editor wants it submitted. 
### Manuscript format
### Electronic format
Usually .rtf. 
#### Beginnings and ends of lines
Make it clear where an entry ends and the next begins
#### Indentions
RTF uses \tab  and \par
#### Typeface changes
Use typed codes and provide a list along with the index
#### Special characters
These don't always translate well, so use special codes for things including the en dash
RTF uses \endash
#### Generic coding
Indexer or publisher may use generic or ad hoc codes for markup. 
## Layout of the Index
### Index title and introductory note
* Title it. "Index" at top of pages unless multiple indexes. If multiple, clearly title them.
* In introductory note between title and first entry, explain any special conventions.
### Type size and columns
Smaller
## Text alignment and  hyphenation
- Usually ragged right
- Do not add hyphens to indicate end-of-lien breaks - publisher will
## Indention and turnover lines
- Indexers generally use tabs but change the width of the tab
- Turnover lines must be extra indented. Often 1 en (not em)
## Bad breaks
* Usually the responsibility of the production editor since they won't show up until formatted
- Don't work with them until the index text is finalized as it can have a domino effect
* Example: splitting of subheadings from one column or page to another, resulting in a page/column beginning with a subheading
* You can do this by repeating the mainheading with teh word continued or cont'd in parenthese and italicized
* Especially helpful in books with 3 columns
* Ideally at each column, but at least between a right-hand and left-hand page
* Reference locators also carried over from another page but separated from the heading is bad
* At the beginning of an alphabetic section, avoid a single line orphaned at the bottom of a column, and the same for the end (widowed)
* Can often be avoided by reducing the leading within a column to fit one or two more index lines within the column, or increasing them. Or moving a line of the index from one column to the next. Make sure not to change the meaning of the entry. 
## Page design tips
- If set in less than 9 pts, consider using a dictionary-style guide word across the top of each page. The running head on the even numbered pages contains the main heading beginning the page and the one on the odd numbered pages contains the main heading that ends the page. 
- If multiple items require explanation like in teh headnote  for example abbreviated compound reference locators referring to different volumes, designer may add a running foot to each page that translates the abbreviations
- Header letters can distinguish alphabetic sections, or at least put a blank line or two between sections
## Electronic display of indexes
* More difficult for readers to scan
* Users get lost inside pdf files, which are optimized for print
* Users may like drilling down through expanding and collapsing lists
* Williams (2000) recommends san serif, 12 to 14-pt type. 
* Mulvany recommends:
	* Display it in indented format
	* All in one column
	* Link all cross-references to the target index entries so readers can click
	* Provide an "A to Z" navigation bar so readers can quickly access the various lette groups
	* For lengthy indexes, provide the ability to search the index for terms and consider the expanding/collapsing format

# Mulvany: 252-­‐253 Chapter 10: “Computer-­‐aided Indexing” (you may stop at “Embedded Indexing Software”)  
## Embedded indexing
* Allow you to focus on term selection and structure
* Sometimes embedded use hidden codes, others ask them to type them on a separate line preceded by special codes
* Most embedded indexing software provides two ways to designate entries.
	* One method involves marking text in the document file and issuing ing a command to include the marked text as an entry for the index. 
	* The second method is used when the indexer needs to include an entry that does not appear verbatim in the text. The indexer issues a command to indicate that an entry should be embedded at a specific point in the text. The indexer then types the exact text for the entry.
* Can be written independent of locators, which means it can start before page proofs are ready and that future revisions will not require reindexing the entire text. 
* Especially useful for documents that may be output in a variety of formats, or subsets selected from (with entries tagged for version for example). 
### Practical problems
- Although it can be done while writing the text, most authors do not do this. 
- It allows indexers to begin working with only one file of a multi-file document, but they will need all files to compile the index. 
- Often the software bottlenecks - if the indexer makes changes, they risk being overwritten by someone else. Version control and file management are important. 
- Most writers aren't writing with the software that will be used to typeset and paginate their books. 
- Current (then?) software makes it difficult to move between various parts of the text as needed, often requiring the indexer to open separate files, resulting in needing to increase editing time by nearly 40 percent. 
- However it does reduce the need to reindex the text and lets you accommodate single-sourcing and translation and internationaliation requirements. 
- Embedded entries will be deleted when the text is deleted, which can affect teh index structure. The entries will nee dto be reexamined. 
- Their coding can be corrupted if writers edit a document without displaying the entries, for example moving next but not the index entry
- Extra time to embed new entries and insure the index structure still works can be more time-consuming than reindexing from scratch. 
- Follow open-system indexing principles ahead of time if you think something will later be used out of context
### Technical problems
#### index entry manipulation
- Sorting of entries, formatting and placement of cross-references, handling of reference locators, overall formatting
- Need to be able to control sorting of numeric entries and special types of entries like names beginning with St. and Mc. , but many embedded indexing programs do not even let you choose word-by-word or letter-by-letter
- The worst alphabetize in strict ASCII order, which puts all capitalized entries before lowercase ones
- See location 3079 for a short list of terms that will let you tell which sort order a software is forcing 
- Some programs let you force a sort order through a "sort as" field
- Often inflexible for see and see also
- Doesn't always provide for cross-reference verification, forcing the indexer to make a manual check
- May automatically concatenate pages even if they should be separate
- May lack automatic inversion; in general, require a lot of typing. 
- Editing can also be extremely tedious. 
- Often, past writers editing the final index but not the embedded entries - ideally, it should back-update. 
- 


# Mulvany 267-­‐269 Chapter 10: “Dedicated Indexing Software” (you may stop at “The  Future”)
- Let you see it in sorted order at all times
- Lots of good features
- Easy to correct simple mistakes
- Some let you use a controlled vocabulary


# Chicago (16.9-6.23; 16.29-16.31; 16.68-70; this will be a review of the Module 1 reading)
See [[0.1 Reading notes - Module 1]]

# Chicago (16.56-16.70; 16.94-16.100; 16.117-16.131)
## Alphabetizing (16.56-16.79)
- The first word should always determine the location, which sometimes means inverting
- Dictionaries are letter-by-letter; library catalogs are word-by-word. 
- In an index with many open  compounds starting with the same word, the word- by- word system may  be easier for users.
- Letter-by-letter: up to the first parenthesis or comma, then start again after it. Spaces and other punctuation marks are ignored. 
	- Order: one word, word followed by a parenthesis, word followed by a comma, then (ignoring spaces and othe rpunctuation) word followed by a number and word followed by letters
- Word-by-word: up to the end of the first word (counting an abbrev or hyphenated compound as one word), using subsequent words only when additional headings begin with the same word. Upt o the first parens or comma, then start again. 
	- Order: one word, word followed by a parens, word followed by a comma, word followed by a sspace, then (ignoring other punctuation) word followed by a number, then word followed by letters
- When a person, place, and thing have the same name, they are arranged in normal alphabetical order. 
- Initials used in place of a given name come before any spelled-out name beginning with the same letter
- Alphabetize acronyms, intiialisms, and most abbreviations as themselves, not their spelled-out versions
- Exceptions: & may be treated as if spelled out, and @ may be ignored as part of a screen name. 
- Isolated entries beginning with numerals are alphabetized as though spelled out (1984 = nineteen eighty-four, 125th St = One nundred twenty fifth street). If many numerals occur in an index, they may be listed in numerical order at the start before the A's. 
- WHen similar headings with numerals occur together, order numerically: Henry III, Henry IV, Henry V; section 9, section 44, section 77. 
- For English-language indexes that include some non-English-language words, alphabetize words with accented letters as though they are unaccented. 
- Subentries:
	- disregard introductory articles, prepositions, and conjunctions; avoid substantive introductory words like "*relations* with" or "*views* on"
	- Sometimes use numerical order if it makes sense, even if others in the same index (**but not in the same entry**) are alphabetized. 
	- Chronological can be used to provide a quick biographical summary if order is obvious

## Punctuating indexes: a summary (16.94-16.100)
### Comma in index entries
- When a main heading is followed immediately by locators, use a comma. Also use commas between locators, and when a heading is an inversion or is qualified without subentries.
### Colon in index entries
- In a run-in index, when it's followed immediately by subentries, use a colon before the first sub-heading. 
- In an indented index, do not use any punctuation after the main heading.
### Semicolon in index entries
- When sub or sub-sub entries are run-in, separate with semicolons
- Cross-references are also separated by semicolons if more than one
### Period in index entries
- Run-in: only before see/see under or see also/see also under
	- when it's in parentheses following a subheading/subentry, no period is used
- no period follows the final word of any entry
### Parentheses in index headings
- Enclose identification or supplementary information
### Em dash in index entries
see 16.27
### En dash in index entries
For page ranges and all other inclusive locators. 

## Constructing the index (16.117-16.131)
### Marking proofs and preparing entries
- Peruse the ToC and work, then highlight terms for main headings or subheadings. Also index notes, even if they're endnotes. 
- Decide how many terms to mark, depending on the kind of work. 5 refs per page = index 1/50 the length of the text. 
- For each term marked, write in a modification - a word or phrase narrowing the application of the heading, hence a potential subentry. May drop later but keep on hand if needed (since otherwise you can wind up with extensive strings of nuymbers)
- Record inclusive numbers
- Type and modify entries, then read carefully against the page proofs to check that the locators are correct
- Alphabetize as part of the process
- FInal check of indexed proofs: double-check for anythign you missed
- If a book, note errors during indexing to send a list to the publisher
### Editing and refining the entries
- Refine terms for main headings (decide among related terms and prepare any needed cross-references)
- Decide whether certain items are best as main entries or subentries, based on where you think readers will look (and how many locators they have). Try to avoid very long strings of subentries
- Break up into subentries if >5-6 locators
- Phrase subheadings as concisely and informatively as possible and begin with a keyword likely to be sought. Some may need to be combined if contiguous
- Check with publisher if it's going to need a great many subentries
- Make sure all cross-references match the edited headings
### Submitting the index
* Having carefully proofread the draft and  checked alphabetical order and all cross- references, punctuation, and  capitalization to ensure consistency— and having produced an index of  the required length, if one has been specified— you will now send the final draft to the publisher. 
* If the publisher requires a printout, allow margins of at least one inch both left and right, and leave the text unjustified.  
* Do not format the index in columns. 
* Use hard returns only at the end  of each entry and, for an indented- style index (see 16.26), at the end of  each subentry. 
* Use single line spacing, and apply hanging indents using  your software’s indentation feature (see 16.24; see also 2.11). 
* Do not impose end- of- line hyphenation (see 2.13). 
* If there is more than one index,  give each an appropriate title (Author Index, Subject Index, etc.) and save  each in a separate file. 
* To avert disaster, keep a copy of the final draft that  you send to the publisher, as well as your marked- up proofs, until the  work has been published. 
* Send the publisher a list of any errors you have  found (see 16.125).  


# Leise excerpt
[[Successful Subheadings by Fred Leise]]
Given those two contexts for subheadings, what are some characteristics of successful subheadings? **They need to exactly and concisely capture the particular focus of the main topic under discussion at this particular location or on these several pages.** To create such subheadings, the indexer must identify the appropriate context in the text, understand how it differs from similar and related contexts, and finally translate the specific context into an appropriate and relevant wording that conveys that meaning to the reader. 

In addition, good subheadings should: 

 provide concept collocation 

 be complete 

 be differentiable 

 offer good information scent 

 exhibit audience relevancy 

 by concise 

 point to information 

 demonstrate parallel construction 

 display the important concept first 

 show a clear relationship to the heading 

  