---
created: 2022-09-01T15:29:30 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/2-dot-11-file-formats?module_item_id=89811829
author: 
---

# 2.11 File Formats: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 2 activities page

---
[Return to Module 2 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-2 "Module 2")

## 2.11 File Formats

The material to be indexed is typically sent to the indexer as a **PDF** (portable document format) file. The material you will index in your indexing projects for this course will be in this format. To read PDF files, you must have [Adobe Acrobat software (Links to an external site.)](http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html) loaded onto your computer.

The indexer typically submits the index as either a **Word** or an **RTF** (rich text format) file, depending on what the editor specifies.

The index is usually in alphabetical order, again according to the sorting specifications of the editor. However, there may be times when it is necessary to sort your index with the main headings and subentries in a **PNO** (page number order) arrangement. A PNO list shows all of the entries in the order of the pages on which they are found. For example, the entries found on page 1 would be listed first, followed by the entries found on page 2, and then page 3, and so on. A PNO file is an excellent way to check the accuracy of reference locators for each entry, and some indexers routinely use PNO files to proof.

Though not a common request, there may be times when a client will request that both a PNO and RTF file of the index be delivered. In such a case, it is likely that the editor will be using the PNO to check locater reference accuracy.

As per Chicago recommendation, don’t forget to always send in the index as a single-column and single-spaced file. Of course, should your client request a double-spaced file you should follow the client's instructions.
