---
created: 2022-09-01T15:30:07 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/2-dot-12-indexing-exercise-1?module_item_id=89811831
author: 
---

# 2.12 Indexing Exercise 1: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 2 activities page

---
[Return to Module 2 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-2 "Module 2")

## 2.12 Indexing Exercise 1

Before starting on Exercise 1, did you remember to complete your Module 1 assignment? Posting an introduction on this course website is only part of the Module 1 assignment. You need to also post an introduction on the following discussion list:

-   Join the [Indexer's Discussion Group (Links to an external site.)](https://groups.io/g/idg) by sending email to [idg+subscribe@groups.io](mailto:idg+subscribe@groups.io). (Required): Post an introduction of yourself on this list. It would be appropriate to mention your current student status, your geographical location, and perhaps what your expectations or aspirations are regarding an indexing career. You may include any other information you deem to be appropriate.
    

Remember to go to the course [Syllabus](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/syllabus "Course Syllabus") to find the links to download student versions of all three indexing programs.

### Inserting Main Headings, Subheadings, and Cross-References


. These PNO lists contain index main headings and subheadings arranged in the order that they are found in the indexed material. The cross-references are listed out of order at the top of these lists. Your task will be to input the entries in the PNO list into each of the software programs (CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY) to create three indexes.

Keep these details in mind:

-   Set the software for word-by-word sorting.
-   Use indented format.
-   _See also_ cross-references must follow the last subheading.
-   Function words (articles, conjunctions, prepositions) are ignored in the main heading and subheading sorting.
-   Use the capitalization and font (italics) as shown in the PNO list.
-   The index should be single-column and single-spaced.
-   Sky's tutorial advises moving back and forth between the Data Entry View and the Edit View while working; however, it is our recommendation that you instead work primarily in the Data Entry View. Though working in the Edit View can be very helpful for specific tasks, moving back and forth between the Data Entry View and Edit View takes up time and doing so on a regular basis while working can significantly increase your indexing time. This is a time-consuming habit that we strongly recommend against.
-   Also change the SKY 2-column default to a 1-column default so that you can send in your indexing assignments as a single-column, single-spaced file as per the Chicago recommendation found in 16.131 (page 968).

\*If you were being asked to send in a hard copy (a printed copy) of the index, the editor would expect to see a single-column and double-spaced printout.

Now follow these directions:

1.  Because this will probably be your first time using these software programs, grading will be based more on completion of the assignment (correctly inserting all of the entries) and less on perfect formatting (spacing, margins, and so on). So do your best to learn the basic functions of these programs, and consider this assignment a first-effort experience. Grading on index formatting will become stricter as this course progresses.
2.  You will be turning in six separate files of the same index. In addition to submitting the three files generated by the software -- an MBK file (the MACREX file), a CDX file (the CINDEX file), and a SKX file (the SKY file) -- you should also save the same three files as rich text format (.rtf) documents (follow the instructions for each indexing program). Be sure to name each .rtf file by indicating the software used, your name, and the course number, like so: "your name X477 CINDEX index", "your name X477 MACREX index", "your name X477 CDX index".

The .rtf files are what a client would expect to receive from an indexer. The MBK, CDX, and SKX files are the files created by MACREX, CINDEX, and SKY and will help me verify that you have created each index using the appropriate program. While you will not ordinarily turn in the MBK, CDX, or SKX file to an editor, you might be asked to do so when you are working on a group project with multiple indexers. That file would then be merged with the files being sent in by the other indexers working on the same project to create the final index.

The required index format to use for this assignment is:

main heading  
   subheading  
   _See also_ cross-reference

main heading. _See_ cross-reference


Note to self: ***Make sure to check discussion forum: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/discussion_topics/10736086?module_item_id=89811833

[Submit Exercise 1 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460016 "Indexing Exercise 1")
