---
created: 2022-09-01T15:24:14 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/2-dot-8-see-under-cross-references
author: 
---

# 2.8 See under Cross-References: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 2 activities page

---
[Return to Module 2 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-2 "Module 2")

## 2.8 See under Cross-References

These are used to direct readers to a subheading under another main heading instead of to another main heading. For example:

drug control  
   Goldilocks metaphor for, 38-39  
   medical prescriptions as form of, 101-103, 140-145  

medical prescription. _See under_ drug control

### Issues to Consider

The guidelines for _see_ cross-references in [Topic 2.6](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/2-dot-6-see-cross-references "2.6 See Cross References") are applicable for _see under_ cross-references. Be aware, however, that many readers have a limited understanding of how cross-references of _any_ kind function, and this is especially true of the less-familiar _see under_ cross-reference. ==Readers may be confused by this cross-reference and, lacking an otherwise compelling reason, it may be best to avoid this cross-reference if possible.

==There are times when a main heading will need too many _see also_ cross-references to comfortably list after a main heading. Three, sometimes four, main headings are often the maximum number of _see also_ cross-references that can be listed without making the entry too cumbersome.== Every indexing project will be unique, so apply this general rule with judicious judgment. What you don’t want is a long list of cross-references that looks awkward or clumsy, and can easily overwhelm of the reader. In this case, a general (or generic) cross-reference serves as a device for letting the reader know that there are multiple related main headings that they may wish to look up. For example:

Shakespeare, William  
   _See also_ _specific plays_
