---
created: 2022-09-01T15:24:33 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/2-dot-9-general-cross-references
author: 
---

# 2.9 General Cross-References: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 2 activities page

---
[Return to Module 2 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-2 "Module 2")

## 2.9 General Cross-References

### Issues to Consider

The general cross-reference is a highly useful devise for handling the problem of multiple and cumbersome _see also_ cross-references. However, there can be a tendency to overuse these general cross-references.

Whenever possible, it is best to include the related topics as subheadings under the broader main heading. Including these subtopics as subheadings avoids the problem of too many _see also_ cross-references. Unfortunately, subheadings that have over seven or eight reference locators need to be broken down and should be listed as _see also_ cross-references instead of subheadings. If the situation is that there are multiple subheadings with too many reference locators, then the use of a general cross-reference is appropriate. For example:

Shakespeare, William  
   death of, 189-190  
   early life of, 1-8  
   literary legacy of, 1-3, 170-183  
   _Midsummer's Night Dream_, 2, 5, 6-8, 10-12, 126-128, 154-159  
   _Romeo and Juliet_, 1, 4, 33-38, 53-58, 87-89, 95-104, 133-135

The above selection of main heading and subentries is awkward and unwieldy due to the long list of page locators following the two plays. If these are the only two plays discussed in the text, the solution would be to delete them as subheadings and to add them as _see also_ cross-references. However, if there are additional plays listed, say six or seven all discussed as frequently as _Midsummer's Night Dream_ and _Romeo and Juliet_, it won't be feasible to have them listed as subheadings with a long list of reference locators. And, as mentioned before, six or seven _see also_ cross-references are too many to comfortably list after this main heading. In this case, the solution is to use the general cross-reference. For example:

Shakespeare, William  
   death of, 189-190  
   early life of, 1-8  
   literary legacy of, 1-3, 170-183  
   _See also specific plays_

Notice that the entire cross-reference is in italics.
