Once you have downloaded the software, print out the documentation for each software package found on the software websites. (These user manuals are PDFs, which require the free Adobe Acrobat plug-in.) The documentation for each of the software packages includes tutorials to help you complete the exercises and practice indexes. These three documentation files are the complete manuals to each program and are lengthy. For example, the CINDEX manual alone is 322 pages long. If your printer has problems printing out such lengthy documents, you may want to print out and learn just the basic functions of each software program, following the instructions below.


### Inserting Main Headings, Subheadings, and Cross-References

These PNO lists contain index main headings and subheadings arranged in the order that they are found in the indexed material. The cross-references are listed out of order at the top of these lists. Your task will be to input the entries in the PNO list into each of the software programs (CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY) to create three indexes.

Keep these details in mind:

-   Set the software for word-by-word sorting.
-   Use indented format.
-   _See also_ cross-references must follow the last subheading.
-   Function words (articles, conjunctions, prepositions) are ignored in the main heading and subheading sorting.
-   Use the capitalization and font (italics) as shown in the PNO list.
-   The index should be single-column and single-spaced.\*
-   Sky's tutorial advises moving back and forth between the Data Entry View and the Edit View while working; however, it is our recommendation that you instead work primarily in the Data Entry View. Though working in the Edit View can be very helpful for specific tasks, moving back and forth between the Data Entry View and Edit View takes up time and doing so on a regular basis while working can significantly increase your indexing time. This is a time-consuming habit that we strongly recommend against.
-   Also change the SKY 2-column default to a 1-column default so that you can send in your indexing assignments as a single-column, single-spaced file as per the Chicago recommendation found in 16.131 (page 968).

\*If you were being asked to send in a hard copy (a printed copy) of the index, the editor would expect to see a single-column and double-spaced printout.

Now follow these directions:

1.  Because this will probably be your first time using these software programs, grading will be based more on completion of the assignment (correctly inserting all of the entries) and less on perfect formatting (spacing, margins, and so on). So do your best to learn the basic functions of these programs, and consider this assignment a first-effort experience. Grading on index formatting will become stricter as this course progresses.
2.  You will be turning in six separate files of the same index. In addition to submitting the three files generated by the software -- an MBK file (the MACREX file), a CDX file (the CINDEX file), and a SKX file (the SKY file) -- you should also save the same three files as rich text format (.rtf) documents (follow the instructions for each indexing program). Be sure to name each .rtf file by indicating the software used, your name, and the course number, like so: "your name X477 CINDEX index", "your name X477 MACREX index", "your name X477 CDX index".

The .rtf files are what a client would expect to receive from an indexer. The MBK, CDX, and SKX files are the files created by MACREX, CINDEX, and SKY and will help me verify that you have created each index using the appropriate program. While you will not ordinarily turn in the MBK, CDX, or SKX file to an editor, you might be asked to do so when you are working on a group project with multiple indexers. That file would then be merged with the files being sent in by the other indexers working on the same project to create the final index.

The required index format to use for this assignment is:

main heading  
   subheading  
   _See also_ cross-reference

main heading. _See_ cross-reference


Note to self: ***Make sure to check discussion forum: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/discussion_topics/10736086?module_item_id=89811833

[Submit Exercise 1 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460016 "Indexing Exercise 1")


#### CINDEX

(1) Pertinent information from the _User's Guide:_ The installations provided on the CDs contain the relevant version of the _User's Guide_ PDF. Students on Windows machines may need to be reminded that they may need to "mount" the CD after installation of the program in order to "see" the PDF.

For CINDEX for Windows, Chapters 1-4 are 76 pages long. This includes pages 24-25, which describe how to add accented characters from the Character Palette.

For CINDEX for Macintosh OS X, Chapters 1-4 are 74 pages long. On the Macintosh, accented characters are entered directly from the keyboard, and page 22 makes a note of this.

Please note that both versions come with full online help, including concise versions of the chapters from the _User's Guide_s. Access these from the help Menu in both versions.

#### SKY

When SKY Index is installed, you will be asked if you would like to print the tutorial. Answer "yes" so pages 7-17 of the manual will be printed out. The information on how to produce diacritics is found on pages 190-94 and 197 of the manual. 

#### MACREX

Printing out the first three chapters of the manual is all that is necessary to learn the basic functions of MACREX. Printed manuals are available for $25 from technical support, listed on [the MACREX website (Links to an external site.)](http://www.macrex.com/). Some students find the MACREX learning curve to be particularly challenging; so we are providing a [Macrex Quick Reference](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/files/233565959/download?wrap=1 "Macrex.pdf")

for both Mac and PC platforms.


## Exercise 1 PNO Lists

**Little Jack Horner (for CINDEX)**

Christmas pie, _See also_ plum  
plum, _See also_ Christmas pie  
Little Jack Horner, introduction to, 1  
plum, events prior to pulling out, 1-4  
corner, Jack's sitting position in, 2  
Little Jack Horner, sitting in corner by, 2  
Christmas pie, eating of, 3  
corner, Christmas pie events in, 3-5  
Little Jack Horner, eating Christmas pie, 3  
Christmas pie, destruction of, 4-5  
Little Jack Horner, locating and pulling out plum by, 4-5  
plum, pulling out of, 5  
corner, Jack's self-actualization while sitting in, 6  
Little Jack Horner, self-actualization expressed by, 6  
self-actualization, 6

**Three Blind Mice (for MACREX)**

carving knife, _See also_ violence  
violence, _See also_ carving knife  
three blind mice,  
introduction to, 1  
running motion by, 2  
farmer's wife, mice attack on, 3  
tail mutilation, events initiating, 3  
three blind mice, attack on farmer's wife by, 3  
violence, events initiating, 3  
carving knife, 4  
farmer's wife, violent response to attack by, 4  
tail mutilation, carving knife used in, 4  
violence, perpetrated on tails of mice, 4  
tail mutilation, perpetrated by farmer's wife, 5  
three blind mice, unique nature of, 5-6

**Incy Wincy Spider (for SKY)**

climb, _See also_ spout  
spider. _See_ incy wincy spider  
spout, _See also_ climb  
climb, failure of initial, 1-2  
incy wincy spider, climb up spout by, 1  
spout, climbed up by incy wincy spider, 1  
incy wincy spider, washed down by rain, 2  
rain, incy wincy spider washed down by, 2  
spout, incy wincy spider washed down off, 2  
climb, events facilitating second attempt at, 3-4  
rain, dried up by sun, 3  
sun, rain dried up by, 3  
spout, second climb by spider up the, 4  
sun, second climb facilitated by actions of, 4