---
created: 2022-09-05T17:27:32 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-4-indexing-humpty-dumpty
author: 
---

# 3.4 Indexing "Humpty Dumpty": JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.4 Indexing "Humpty Dumpty"

You may wonder why this course uses nursery rhymes to practice the process of term selection. There are several reasons why a nursery rhyme serves as an excellent device. First, comprehension of the text is an absolute requirement for good term selection, and nursery rhymes are familiar enough to be easily understood. Second, logistically speaking, the nursery rhyme length makes it an ideal text for breaking down and practicing term selection. And third, each rhyme has a story to tell, just like any published text that you might have to professionally index.

Let's use the familiar nursery rhyme "Humpty Dumpty" to apply this process of identifying the information questions to select entries.

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall.  
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.  
All the King's horses and all the King's men  
Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again.

What is the information, or derived knowledge, found in this familiar child's rhyme? Let us assume, just for the benefit of this exercise, that each line is a chapter in a book about Humpty Dumpty. To simplify this exercise, I am going to supply hypothetical page numbers to each line.

First, let us examine a poorly constructed index. If the indexer only looks for the "who" or "what" in the text, the index will look something like this:

the fall, 4-6  
Humpty Dumpty, 1-3, 4-6, 10-13  
King's horses, 7-9, 10-13  
King's men, 7-9, 10-13  
the wall, 1-3, 4-6

Notice that all the pertinent pieces of information are in the above index. However, there are no relationships between the entries, and there is, at best, a poor index structure. Instead of a viable index structure, there is only a list of terms.

In contrast to the above approach, if we ask the "who, what, where, when, why, and under what circumstances" questions, a far different index will emerge. We'll start by looking at the first line (or chapter):

"Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall"

-   Who is doing what? _(Humpty Dumpty is sitting.)_
    
-   Where is Humpty Dumpty sitting? _(on a wall)_
    
-   When and why is Humpty Dumpty sitting on the wall? _(The text doesn't answer the question of when or why.)_
    

So the main headings, along with the subentries that clarify those main headings, look like this:

Humpty Dumpty  
   wall sitting by, 1-3

the wall  
   Humpty Dumpty sitting on, 1-3

These entries recreate the pattern of information in the first line, or chapter, of this rhyme. The "who" and "what" questions have been answered and used to create both the main and subentries above. Moving along to the second and third lines:

"Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.

All the King's horses and all the King's men"

-   What has happened? _(Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.)_
    
-   To whom? _(Humpty Dumpty)_
    
-   Where? _(from the wall)_
    
-   Why? _(We don't know.)_
    

We will also add information regarding responses of other actors (King's horses and men) to the fall of Humpty Dumpty. So the main and subentries look like this:

the fall  
   King's horses/men arrive following, 7-9

King's horses  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9

King's men  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9

And, finally, the third and fourth lines:

"All the King's horses and all the King's men  
Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again."

-   What was the result of the fall? _(Humpty Dumpty suffered permanent damage.)_
    
-   Who suffered from the fall? _(Humpty Dumpty did.)_
    
-   Who else was involved? _(King's horses and men couldn't fix the damage.)_
    
-   Why couldn't the damage be fixed? _(We don't know.)_
    

The entries and subentries look like this:

the fall  
   permanent nature of damage from, 10-13

Humpty Dumpty  
   permanent damage suffered by, 10-13

King's horses  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

King's men  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

### Putting all of the entries together, the index becomes:

the fall  
    Kings' horses/men arrive following, 7-9  
    permanent nature of damage from, 10-13  
    suffered by Humpty Dumpty, 4-6

Humpty Dumpty  
   fall by, 4-6  
   permanent damage suffered by, 10-13  
   wall sitting by, 1-3

King's horses  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

King's men  
   arrival after the fall by Humpty Dumpty, 7-9  
   failure to repair Humpty Dumpty by, 10-13

By asking and answering the information questions, we end up with the main headings and subheadings for this index. We were unable to ascertain the answers to some of our questions; therefore, there are no entries referring to that missing information.

This is an opportune time to discuss the link between information and the type of material being indexed. Application-oriented text (as is often found in computer software manuals, how-to books, or corporate publications) will generally contain more "what," "where," "when," and "under what circumstances" information and less "why" information. In contrast, scholarly material generally contains equal amounts of these questions and certainly a higher percentage of "why" and "under what circumstances" information than other types of text, leading to a somewhat more complex index structure.
