---
created: 2022-09-05T17:31:40 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-5-the-importance-of-good-term-selection
author: 
---

# 3.5 The Importance of Good Term Selection: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.5 The Importance of Good Term Selection

Term selection is irrevocably linked to index structure. In the Humpty Dumpy index, we include in the term selections of the main and subheadings the information revealed in the text. And, tempting though it may be, we have not added to that information or interpreted it in any manner, thus avoiding a common error made by new indexers. What we do have is

-   Entries that recreate the pattern of information in the nursery rhyme and are arranged as thematic relationships

-   An index with multiple access points for retrieval of the same information

-   Term selections that create a strong index structure that accurately reflects the information found in the nursery rhyme

-   Basic elements of the Humpty Dumpty storyline instantly revealed through even a casual examination of the index

### Good Term Selection and the Editing Process

When you use good term selection, you greatly reduce the time and effort you expend on editing your index. Later on in the course, we will be discussing ways to reduce the time and effort required for editing by improving how you create the index structure. Since ideally the index structure is created simultaneous to the selection of both main and subheadings, there are seldom "loose ends." Entries are generally already in their proper place with the appropriate relation to other entries. If you follow the process we used for the Humpty Dumpty index, there is no need to reorganize entries into a cohesive collection or to create parallel structure. So, the editing process becomes more copyediting in nature. The end result is a more efficient indexing process with a cleaner index structure and user-friendly term selection.
