[[Include front/back template](moz-extension://4a44f143-36dc-460e-82ac-d53473232f72/popup/popup.html#) 

---

created: 2022-09-12T17:02:01 (UTC -07:00)

tags: []

source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419612

author: 

---

​

# The Four Domains - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

​

> ## Excerpt

> Typically, I don't like to talk about the Four Domains (the color-coding that you will see on your Strengthsfinder results). But Gallup is now utilizing the four domains outside of team coaching and is trying to help people see what "large areas" you can expect your best work from.

​

---

Typically, I don't like to talk about the Four Domains (the color-coding that you will see on your Strengthsfinder results). But Gallup is now utilizing the four domains outside of team coaching and is trying to help people see what "large areas" you can expect your best work from. 

​

So, because those questions will come up, I want to address them here.

​

First, a word on what the Four Domains are and are not.

​

They are:

​

-   A helpful and interesting tool

-   A correlated set of common behaviors that seem to have a common thrust

[Download](moz-extension://4a44f143-36dc-460e-82ac-d53473232f72/popup/popup.html#)](<---
created: 2022-09-12T17:02:26 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419612
author: 
---

# The Four Domains - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

%3E ## Excerpt
> Typically, I don't like to talk about the Four Domains (the color-coding that you will see on your Strengthsfinder results). But Gallup is now utilizing the four domains outside of team coaching and is trying to help people see what "large areas" you can expect your best work from.

---
Typically, I don't like to talk about the Four Domains (the color-coding that you will see on your Strengthsfinder results). But Gallup is now utilizing the four domains outside of team coaching and is trying to help people see what "large areas" you can expect your best work from. 

So, because those questions will come up, I want to address them here.

First, a word on what the Four Domains are and are not.

They are:

-   A helpful and interesting tool
-   A correlated set of common behaviors that seem to have a common thrust

They are not:

-   A prescription for a particular job
-   An indicator that you are either balanced or unbalanced
-   A reason to think ill of yourself--that's the opposite of this whole experience!

The domains serve as a framework to help us see the big-picture areas that our most powerful contributions to groups or teams can come from. The themes are now color-coded according to the domains of:

Executing (purple)

Influencing (orange)

Relationship-Building (blue)

Strategic-Thinking (green)

Again, these are extremely big-picture ways that the Strengths can be grouped together. They don't correlate with MBTI or with DISC. They're just interesting labels. :) (Can you tell I get asked this question a lot?)

EXECUTING

\*People with dominant Executing themes know how to make things happen.

Achiever  
Arranger  
Belief  
Consistency  
Deliberative  
Discipline  
Focus  
Responsibility  
Restorative

INFLUENCING

\*People with dominant Influencing themes know how to take charge, speak up, and make sure the team is heard.

Activator  
Command  
Communication  
Competition  
Maximizer  
Self-Assurance  
Significance  
Woo

RELATIONSHIP-BUILDING

\*People with dominant Relationship-Building themes have the ability to build strong relationships that can hold a team together and make the team greater than the sum of its parts.

Adaptability  
Connectedness  
Developer  
Empathy  
Harmony  
Includer  
Individualization  
Positivity  
Relator

STRATEGIC-THINKING

\*People with dominant Strategic Thinking themes help teams consider what could be. They absorb and analyze information that can inform better decisions.

Analytical  
Context  
Futuristic  
Ideation  
Input  
Intellection  
Learner  
Strategic

I won't be color-coding them in the Strengths from here on out, because this is about the end of how helpful I think this information is. 🙂 But because I know some people will be interested (hello, Input/Learners), I want to go ahead and give it up front!

If you consistently work on a team, knowing where your team has a lot of capacity can be extremely helpful. So, if you have a team with all Influencing Strengths, then we would want to strategize ways to make sure that the executing and relationship building and strategic thinking still happened. 🙂 But that doesn't mean they won't or can't. Just that the team is stronger in one area.

The same is true with individuals.>)