---
created: 2022-09-12T17:03:29 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419615
author: 
---

# Kick-Off Video with Becca - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> Please watch this initial video with Becca for just a few notes about the cohort experience!

---
Please watch this initial video with Becca for just a few notes about the cohort experience!

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAfyBAzoBBI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAfyBAzoBBI)

Just a quick note about this video: I forget to say, when I make this video, that everyone's experience of the class will be very different. Some of you will do both your coaching appointments quite quickly and want to get through the information as fast as possible, and some of you will intentionally want to draw the process out so there is more time between when you get your packets and when you do your coaching, and then a bit more time after that, you'll ask for your next packet. 

Everyone's speed and assimilation (and schedule) is so different, it makes it hard for us to give predictable information about how long things will take, or give information about general rules.

Here's the only general rule: you go at your own pace, and then about a month from the "end" of class, we start with some group follow-up calls. Those will be intended to provide some "in class" experience, and also to give you an opportunity to get on with Becca and ask questions. Because our coaches have such diverse experiences and capacities, Becca doesn't coach everyone (although I/Becca do make all the coaching assignments) for every call. But I do still like to see everyone. So I will be on all of the follow-up calls just to make sure I can close any loops that need closing and answer any questions that need answering.

But please do email us if you have any questions at all, anytime during the class. It's what we're here for.

Thank you all so much for doing this coaching and we look forward to speaking more soon!
