---
created: 2022-09-12T17:03:59 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419617
author: 
---

# How To Utilize This Information - Class Framework - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> The very first thing we're going to do in this class is learn to start seeing ourselves in the information. I say this a lot: The first step to Strengths Development is knowing when you are doing a particular Strength. Knowing when a behavior is coming from a Strength area.

---
The very first thing we're going to do in this class is learn to start seeing ourselves in the information. I say this a lot: The first step to Strengths Development is knowing when you are doing a particular Strength. Knowing when a behavior is coming from a Strength area.

Why is this?

Because what we've learned about talents (the individual success behaviors that make up the Strengths themes) is that they tend to rise together. They tend to cluster, and they tend to develop together.

Let's say that you are a writer. (SHOCKER.) And let's say that you like to study plotting devices so you can be a better editor of your own work. So you read everything you can get your hands on about plot structure, and then you start applying those theories to your own work in your revision process.

Where is this coming from?

The short answer is, I don't know, in a vacuum. But we will, as we study your Strengths. You've taken this incredibly sensitive, 40+-years-of-applied-research-behind-it psychometric assessment specifically designed to tell you where you are wired to be the most successful. My assessment means nothing without the strength of that science behind it. 

However.

If I happen to know that you have Strategic and Input, then the resonance of those Strengths behind those patterns means something to me, and I can say, "_Y__ou like to study plotting devices so you can be a better editor of your own work_ \[**Strategic**\--always wants to get around the road blocks\]_. So you read everything you can get your hands on_ \[**Input**\--likes to collect information\] _about plot structure, and then you start applying those theories_ \[**Strategic**\--wants to have fewer road blocks and pick the best path forward\] _to your own work in your revision process."_ 

Then, we might do some work on why your Strategic has decided that you're not editing well right now. What's at the core of that belief. Are you trying to accomplish something? Get somewhere? Do you see a roadblock to your success? We need to get at the core of this Strategic decision so we know how to develop that capacity exponentially.

As opposed to, let's say, you have Context and Learner. Then, I can say, "_You like to study_ \[**Context**\--wants to see the history of how plots have been created, perhaps, or the full breadth/context of all plotting systems\] _plotting devices so you can be a better_ \[**Learner**\--wants to be competent\] _editor of your own work. So you read everything you can get your hands on_ \[**Learner**\--wants a depth of information\] _about plot structure, and then you start applying those theories to your own work in your revision process_ \[**Context**\--wants to not repeat the patterns of history that got us to failure\]_._"

Then, we might do some work on what the patterns are that you see in your own editing. What is the context that brought you to where you are. What is the desire for competency about \[Learner\]? Are you seeing things because someone you respect (like an expert) has told you that you're not good at something?

Do you see how the same behaviors can come from different places? If we don't do the work to let the process show, and we don't investigate where the behaviors are coming from, then we're just applying our best guess to what's going on. Granted, my best guess is often accurate, but even then, I can't be predictive about what Strengths people have with 100% accuracy, because I have to hear the message underneath what they're saying in order to know what's important about what they said.

Does that make sense?

So, you can also see my Strategic/Communication Strength combo (supported by high Input), even in how I coach. I am always listening seventeen layers below what everyone's saying, and having a Strengths grid helps me to be accurate about those layers. But we really do need to know exactly where things are coming from, so we know exactly how to develop.

For awhile, in this class, what I want you to do is specifically to look for these Strength behaviors in yourself. Start noticing when things are happening, and where they're coming from. The more you get to know the Strengths in depth, the more you'll be able to see these things in yourself, and the easier it will be to know how to develop those behaviors.

And yes, for those of you who are wondering, I do those brackets in literally every sentence anyone ever says, and every paragraph I read. It is compulsive at this point. I'm like the weird Sherlock Holmes character, with the slow-down-of-time (more evident in the movie with RDJ than in the TV show with BC) where I label things, look for their source, and figure out how to get around the roadblocks so they can do their best work.

And I even do it to myself: "_with the slow-down-of-time_ \[**Strategic**\] _(more evident in the movie with RDJ than in the TV show with BC_ _) where I label things_ \[**Input**\]_, look for their source_ \[**Communication** & **Learner**, both\]_, and figure out how to get around the roadblocks_ \[**Strategic**\] _so they can do their best work_ \[**Maximizer**\]."

This is the level of psychosis that I possess. 😊 

But it's also why I am the perfect person to teach you this class, and why I have no doubt that we'll be successful as we navigate this path together.
