---
created: 2022-09-12T17:08:39 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419629
author: 
---

# Creating Your Development Plan - Development Plans and Communities - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> One of the things we covered in the 1st one-on-one was a specific action item to work on one of your Strengths. It was my goal to try to focus down as much as possible on just one area that you will be maximizing your development in, to make a bigger impact on your writing.

---
One of the things we covered in the 1st one-on-one was a specific action item to work on one of your Strengths. It was my goal to try to focus down as much as possible on just one area that you will be maximizing your development in, to make a bigger impact on your writing.

Please go back through your notes, as we end class, and create action steps for how you will act on this plan. Keep the action steps small.

Some of you are working primarily on Strength identification in your development plan. That's because the more aware you are of when you're using your Strengths, the more likely you will be to get better-faster at them, now and in the future. 

If you were not already focusing on Strengths identification, make sure you add that to your development plan. A good development plan should be small action steps. So, for instance:

DAILY: Watch for my Strengths, label them either live or in retrospect, and journal about how I'm using them (especially how I see them showing up in my writing).

WEEKLY: Review my journal pages and make notes about patterns I see in how I use my Strengths and how I can execute more often.

MONTHLY: Check in with the Strengths community for X Strength. Share some of my insights and learn from the development plans of other writers.

QUARTERLY: Check in with Becca about how my X Strength development is going. See if I should schedule a follow-up one-on-one, or continue in what I'm doing. Am I in a place where I could get regular Strengths coaching? Or is it best for me to keep developing on my own?

ANNUALLY: Take the SFW Check-In class and get re-centered on developing my Strengths, or pick a new Strength to start developing.

Please do break your actions down into whatever works for you. Set reminders for yourself, digitally or on your paper calendar if you keep one, to do these check-ins. 

You can always book additional coaching sessions with me, but it is my goal to give you the information to make you a better decision-maker, and then let you make those decisions. There's ongoing support in the Strengths for Writers Facebook group, and in the Strengths communities on my website. I hope that with those levels of free support, that will be enough. And of course, now, there's also the QuitCast with the Strengths for Writers episodes every other week, and Gallup's Theme Thursday podcast. But I do want to let you know that if you'd like additional coaching, it is definitely available.
