---
created: 2022-09-12T17:10:59 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419631
author: 
---

# What To Do Now - Development Plans and Communities - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> We have some follow-up group calls available after SFW is over, and we'll be including links to register for those in the following lesson. We hope you will take advantage of the opportunity to follow-up on your final coaching appointment and to get additional coaching support if you need it.

---
We have some follow-up group calls available after SFW is over, and we'll be including links to register for those in the following lesson. We hope you will take advantage of the opportunity to follow-up on your final coaching appointment and to get additional coaching support if you need it.

Please sign up for the email follow-up to Strengths for Writers. You'll get emails for 30 days to help reinforce the learning and execution from this course. [Click here to sign up.](https://mailchi.mp/betterfasteracademy/sfw101)

And if you haven't looked at the Patreon yet (where we do monthly live group coaching), that's another place for additional follow-up help. [Check that out here.](https://www.patreon.com/beccasyme)

Also, if you enjoyed your coaching with Terry, Susan, or Elli and would like to continue being coached, on a one-on-one basis, they are offering a one-time $25-off coupon to SFW graduates for the first follow-up one-on-one coaching call. Please email manager@betterfasteracademy.com to take advantage of this special pricing option!

And don't forget to get connected in the Strengths forums on the BFA website. We want to stay connected!
