---
created: 2022-09-06T15:12:41 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/4-dot-5-poem-and-song-indexes-musical-titles
author: 
---

# 4.5 Poem and Song Indexes; Musical Titles: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 4 activities page

---
[Return to Module 4 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-4 "Module 4")

## 4.5 Poem and Song Indexes; Musical Titles

There are some differences in how Chicago 14th, 15th, and 16th editions treat these indexes. In the discussion below, the source of each index guideline is labeled.

### Poem Indexes: Combination of Authors, Titles, and First Line

_Chicago 17th, Section 16.145_

Authors names may be set in caps and small caps, titles of poems are in italics, and first lines are in roman type in sentence style and without quotation marks. Letter-by-letter sorting should be used.

Note that this is a change from Chicago 15th, which states that the author names should be set in all-capitalized letter.

### Poem Indexes: Author-Title

_Chicago 14th, Section 17.150_

Authors' names are in roman type; titles are in italic. (Information on the author-title index has not been included in the Chicago 15, 16, or 17th editions.)

### Poem and Song Indexes: First Line

Example taken from _The Reader's Digest Children's Songbook_ (The Reader's Digest Association Inc., 1985), using Chicago 14th recommendations:

If you go down in the woods today...............98  
If you're happy and you know it..................176  
I know an old lady who swallowed a fly......125

Oh, the Rock Island Line.............................172  
Old MacDonald had a farm...........................96  
Once a jolly swag man................................200  
One little, two little, three little Indians........217  
The flat foot floo-gee with the floy..............140  
The fox went out in the chilly night...............88  
The sun'll come out tomorrow......................25  
This land is your land..................................188  
This old man, he played one.......................218  
Twinkle, twinkle, little star............................202

Now the same example using the Chicago 15th recommendations:

If you go down in the woods today, 98  
If you're happy and you know it, 176  
I know an old lady who swallowed a fly, 125

Oh, the Rock Island Line, 172  
Old MacDonald had a farm, 96  
Once a jolly swag man, 200  
One little, two little, three little Indians, 217

The flat foot floo-gee with the floy, 140  
The fox went out in the chilly night, 88  
The sun'll come out tomorrow, 25  
This land is your land, 188  
This old man, he played one, 218  
Twinkle, twinkle, little star, 202

Notice that the recommended Chicago format has changed in the 15th edition from the 14th edition example. However, also note that lines do _not_ ignore articles (a, an, the) in the sorting in either Chicago 14th or 15th.

Both the Chicago 16th and 17th editions also state that letter-by-letter sorting is preferred and that lines beginning with A, An, or The are alphabetized under A or T. The same example, used in both editions, is:

After so long an absence, 295  
A handful of red sand, from the hot clime, 108  
An old man in a lodge within a park, 315  
Beautiful valley! Through whose verdant meads, 325  
From this high portal, where upstrings, 630  
O'er all the hill-tops, 617  
Of Prometheus, how undaunted, 185  
O hemlock tree! O hemlock tree! How faithful are thy branches, 614  
There is no flock, however watched and tended, 107  
The young Endymion sleeps Endymion's sleep, 316

### Musical Titles in Indexes

Chicago 17th does not specifically address musical titles in indexes but the general convention are as follows:

Titles of larger works are generally set in italics except for generic titles (such as Symphony No. 2; Piano Concerto No. 4; Piano Sonata in E flat major, op. 5 no. 2), which are set in roman. Musical titles have very specific rules, which must be verified by the indexer. For example, Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6 in B minor, Pathetique. How should Pathetique be formatted? This is the kind of information that cannot be reasoned out by an indexer, instead, it must be looked up and verified by a music reference. In this case, the rule is that if the name of a symphony is named by the composer it is placed in italics, but if the name is a common name, not named by the composer, then quote marks are used. 'Pathetique' is a common name and is correctly placed in quote marks. Clearly this is a guideline for which the "best educated guess" will be absolutely useless. Only an indexer who is either experienced in indexing music theory or one who looks up the reference will be able to come up with the correct answer. So, be wary of "guessing" these kinds of issues.

Here are a few other general rules for musical titles:

-   Shorter pieces, such as songs, are in quotes.
-   Titles of operas and song cycles are in italics.
-   Titles of arias or individual songs from larger works are in quotes.

Formatting musical titles can be very tricky. _Writing About Music: A Style Sheet_ by D. Kern Holoman and the _Juilliard Style Manual_ are both excellent sources for indexing musical theory text.
