---
created: 2022-09-16T19:38:24 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/5-dot-1-introducing-the-berkeley-method-of-indexing?module_item_id=89811893
author: 
---

# 5.1 Introducing the Berkeley Method of Indexing: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 5 activities page

---
[Return to Module 5 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-5 "Module 5")

## 5.1 Introducing the Berkeley Method of Indexing

_Topics 5.1 through 5.4 are adapted from "Measuring Value: Worth Your Pay and Paid Your Worth," by Sylvia Coates, 2010._

Many students ask if there is some kind of indexing "formula" they can follow in order to index. The short answer is "no, there isn't." However, the somewhat longer answer is -- while every indexer develops their unique way of indexing, it is possible to describe indexing methodologies in general and definitely possible to identity the advantages and disadvantages as well as time-efficiency of each method. First, let us take a look at the indexing formula dilemma.

### Providing an Indexing Formula Dilemma

The age-old question of indexing students is -- _why can't you give me a formula on how to index?_ Indexing students have always asked for an indexing formula only to be told over and over again that there is no such thing. This question actually isn't completely out of bounds as many professions do provide detailed methods and tactics for accomplishing the processes within that discipline. Unfortunately, each indexing project is unique as each text is written for a specific audience, subject-matter, and message, so this is not as easy for indexing as it might be for another discipline. It is the sheer complexity of fitting the indexing process to a particular text that makes it so difficult to provide a set formula for term selection and building an index structure. And it is this same complexity that makes it so difficult to successfully teach students how to index.

Indeed, the prevailing wisdom in the indexing community is that it is not possible to "teach" someone to index. It is the belief that only "natural" indexers will be able to learn how to index that serves as a major barrier to both teaching and learning how to index. The traditional approach to teaching someone to index has been to present the indexing conventions and rules but to assume that only those few "natural" indexers will be able to successfully index. 

So, just who are these natural indexers? There is no industry-wide criteria identifying natural indexers but only a rather vague description in terms of being "detailed-oriented, likes to read, organizational-minded." I reject that description as being inadequate; my own belief is that people who have a tendency toward using thematic thinking for conceptualizing are those few so-called natural indexers. However, this does not mean that someone who is "not" a so-called natural indexer cannot become a proficient and successful indexer, though it does mean that they will need to be vigilant in developing an efficient and thorough indexing methodology.

### How about an Indexing Methodology?

Working indexers develop their own unique methodology for approaching an indexing project, term selection, and creating the final index structure. There are likely as many indexing methodologies as there are indexers. The index quality and usability is dependent not only on the indexing methodology used but also upon the skills and expertise of the individual indexer. It is important to acknowledge that different indexers, using dissimilar indexing approaches and techniques, can write equally excellent indexes.

What is also important to acknowledge is that all of these different indexing methodologies are not equally well-organized or efficient. Indexing speed and efficiency is as important to an indexer's career as is accurate and thorough indexing. The reality of working as a freelance indexer is that your income will depend not only upon the project page rate but also on the efficiency of your indexing methodology. And, unlike the possibility of producing equally high-quality indexes using different methods, not all indexing methodologies are equally time-efficient. Furthermore, it isn't enough that the methodology be only time-efficient, it must also result in a thorough and complete index. The objective of a competent indexer, then, is to use an indexing methodology that is both efficient and thorough in order to write a high-quality index and also make a living wage and annual income.

So, how does this work and what can you do to ensure that your indexing methodology is more efficient? We've already established that there are many different possible indexing methodologies and that more than one will result in a high-quality index. But our objective is to follow a methodology that is both efficient and thorough in order to not sacrifice index quality for speed.

Such a methodology is what we introduce here as the Berkeley Way of Indexing, All of the methodology components, embedded as part of the curriculum of this course, are as follows:

The Berkeley Way of Indexing components:

1.  The Thematic Way of Thinking
2.  The Information Questions
3.  Concurrent Process (integrating term selection and editing processes into one process) by following the OHIO (Only Handle It Once) principle

The course curriculum has already introduced both the thematic way of thinking and the information questions, but it is beneficial to briefly review these components in the next two lecture topics before talking about concurrent process.
