==note: I have skipped copying in some lessons when there wasn't meaningful content. 

---
created: 2022-09-12T17:00:31 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419607
author: 
---

# Welcome Lecture - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> Welcome to Strengths for Writers!

---
Welcome to Strengths for Writers!

This month-long experience is a customized, coaching-heavy look at how your Strengths (as tested by the Clifton Strengthsfinder assessment) will help you to have a better author career. Some of the Strengths are easily and simply applicable to manuscript work, some help more in your writing life, but all are part of what will make you a better author.

When you signed up for this class, no doubt, you were piqued with interest by something we learned in Write Better-Faster 101 or 201. It might be the Better-Faster concept itself (that we can get [better-faster](https://youtu.be/7xSwSQTHnlw), exponentially better, by the application of time and intention to our areas of greatest Strength), or it might be a particular Strength theme. Whatever it was, you're here and you're invested, and your payoff will be what I hope will come out of any Better-Faster Academy class: becoming a better decision maker.

Better decision makers are people who know themselves well enough to know where to be strategic in their choices. They know how to develop themselves, and they know where to go when they need help. I hope to foster all of these things in this class.

The class itself is very one-on-one heavy. Because the individual talents that make up the Strength themes are so dominant, they are like instincts. It can be hard to separate them from "our self" at times. This makes a true group discussion about Strengths difficult online, because the areas of our highest Strength are also places where we can be the most easily hurt. So it's my goal to get us to a place where we understand our own, and then have a basic understanding of the ones we don't have, so that future group discussions will be easier.

There will be a one-on-one, sometime after the first week, and then a follow-up one-on-one at the end of the month to check in on the development of your Strength. Each one-on-one will be focused on different elements of your Top Strengths. The first is generally your "Top Five" call and the second is generally the "6-10" call, where we discuss other dominant Strengths, not in your Top Five.

There will be no discussions inside this classroom during the month of class, but you are welcome to email my assistant anytime at assistant@betterfasteracademy.com with any questions you have. And then, of course, we'll have the one-on-ones, and there will be some follow-up group calls, as well. 

Once again, the goal of this class: better decision-makers. I want you to fully understand your Strengths and how they can apply to your writing. I want you to have some areas (again, like WBF--one or two, to start with in order to focus your attention) of development where you can see better-faster results. The work will not be easy, of course. But it will be worth it.

And finally, I hope this experience is FUN. You may meet any one of our certified coaches through this process, and we all love Strengths so much. We love the "theory" of Strengths, and we love helping writers get to that better-faster place of exponential development and growth in our naturally dominant personality traits. Each of you has such phenomenal innate potential, we want to be part of helping you realize it. 

**There are three things you MUST do before moving on to the next lesson:**

**1\] If you have not yet taken the Clifton Strengthsfinder test or if you need to unlock your Full 34 Strengths, please email our classroom manager at: assistant@betterfasteracademy.com and request your code and instructions.**  

**2\] As soon as you receive your results, or if you have already unlocked your Full 34 Strengths, please email them Annette at the email above.**

**3\] Take a few minutes to fill out the** [**SFW Intake Form.**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeZE--BpCyO6s6Jq5_TM3IZfekh5YT7NSOYDJPiYzQcHFGHPw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

You can expect to receive your coaching assignment by the end of the first week. It takes us a bit to make sure we get everyone matched with the right coaches, but we'll get them done as quickly as possible. In the meantime, please do take advantage of the additional materials in this lesson.
