---
created: 2022-09-12T17:01:04 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419609
author: 
---

# General Information on the Strengthsfinder - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> This is a quick introduction to the Clifton Strengthsfinder.

---
This is a quick introduction to the Clifton Strengthsfinder.

The assessment is grounded in more than three decades of study, and then another twenty-plus years of active practice and research. Strengthsfinder began as a study of how humans are the most successful. Donald Clifton and his team of researchers interviewed the best of the best (across gender, industry, culture and language), trying to discern if there was a pattern to how people were successful.

Turns out, there is a pattern. A discernible pattern.

After hundreds of thousands of interviews (which they continue to conduct, by the way, just to refine the data), Donald Clifton discovered that there were consistent patterns of success. They were basically "one line" descriptions of a particular talent. And after some more study, he realized that there was also a pattern to how those talents grouped together.

The nearly-three-hundred descriptors of talent grouped together into 34 Strengths. Not prescriptive (or deductive), but descriptive (or inductive). This sets Strengthsfinder apart from every other psychometric assessment out there, because they didn't begin with a set of behaviors and set out to prove their correct assumptions. Instead, they were willing to be proven wrong, and what they discovered was probably the most transformational concept in the world of personality research to-date:

**There is a predictable pattern to how people are successful, and if you know how your particular brain relates to that pattern, you can get "better-faster".**

Where does the "better-faster" come in?

You all likely remember me giving the example in class about the two groups of readers? That was one of the experiments that Gallup created in order to test the validity of this Strengths concept. Their question was:

If you apply intention and time to a Strengths area, will you have better results than if you apply intention and time to an area where you're not naturally gifted?

The answer, of course, was YES. 

Exponentially.

They took two groups of young readers. One group had an average word-per-minute speed of 90 and the other group had an average of 350 (already three times as naturally gifted as the average readers). Both groups were put through a class to improve their words-read-per-minute skills.

The first group came out with an average of 150 words per minute. Normal improvement.

The above-average readers with natural ability, their scores also went up. To almost 3000 words per minute.

You didn’t read that wrong. It says three thousand. That puts them in the top 1% of all reading speeds in the world. With time and intention applied to an area of natural ability, and taught by a gifted teacher.

_The Top One Percent._ 

Both are results of growth in a discreet task. One is exponential.

When armed with a knowledge about the areas where you can expect the best from yourself (those areas where you can expect near-perfect performance from yourself), then you can apply that to your writing life, and be more focused on the top 1% of what you are able to do as a writer. That's where we want to be in this class. 

To learn about where we can expect our best.

Anyone who  wants to see a list of more articles to read on the general concept of Strengths (or about the founder, Dr. Donald Clifton), a gracious Analytical/Learner former student collated this list of additional materials:
