---
created: 2022-09-12T17:02:47 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419613
author: 
---

# Reference Guide - Welcome to Strengths for Writers - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> Come back to this later, if you'd like. Or copy and paste to have as a reference tool just in case anything gets confusing. I'm hopeful that you'll ask questions if you have them, but please also reference this if you need it.

---
Come back to this later, if you'd like. Or copy and paste to have as a reference tool just in case anything gets confusing. I'm hopeful that you'll ask questions if you have them, but please also reference this if you need it.

**Strength**: _n._ The ability to consistently provide near-perfect performance

**Talent**: _n_. A naturally-recurring pattern of thought, feeling, or behavior that can be productively applied. The greater the intensity of the talent, the greater its power and the greater your opportunity for success.

**Skill**: _n_. The basics ability to move through the fundamental steps of a task. Skill can be acquired through formal or informal training.

Think of it this way:

Talent + Talent + Talent + Talent (etc.) = Strength Theme (a theme of strength, to be developed)

Talents + Skill = Strength 

So, the goal of knowing your Strengths is both to USE it, and to DEVELOP it. So we'll be talking both about how the Strengths appear **and** how to strengthen the Strengths. (Top 1%, right?) :) That's what we want!

**Barrier Labels** are the labels that others put onto Strength themes to devalue or dismiss the behavior as a weakness, or when they have a hard time seeing how it can be a Strength. For instance, a high Achiever might get called "a brownnoser" because the person giving that label isn't capable of seeing that the Achiever is driven to succeed from inside. The person attaching the Barrier Label is frustrated by some part of the Strength theme, and as a way of explaining why the Achiever is working so hard, labels them in order to write them off or demean them. This attitude has created a barrier to the person being able to value the Strength theme. Part of why we discuss barrier labels is to give assent to the fact that not everyone understands every Strength theme. Acknowledging the Barrier Label of every Strength is about finding language to help people flip that script.

Additionally, the Strength themes each have a "balcony" and a "basement" that may cause some of these Barrier Labels to be assumed. Strengths may not be always acting like "strong" muscles. If you think of the way that developed and undeveloped muscles can act, that's a pretty good indication of what a balcony (developed) and a basement (undeveloped) can be like. Some basements and barrier labels overlap, which makes it sometimes harder to distinguish between the "people say this thing about me" and the "I really need to change this." If you feel like you're getting a lot of barrier labels about your Strengths, definitely discuss this with your first coach.

**Bucket**: A series of sequential Strengths that have a similar level of capacity. We typically break Strengths up into the Always (usually the top 3-5), Mostly (the next 5-8), Sometimes (the next 10-12), and Never (the bottom Strengths). These designations are based on the intensity of the Strengths, and they typically have a very definite "cutoff" at each level. Unless Strengths are in alphabetical order in a cluster, we don't break up clusters.

**Balcony**: a Strength theme acting in the person's best interest and creating growth

**Basement**: _n._ a Strength theme causing friction, or acting against the person's best interest

**Theme Insight Report**: _n._ The discussion of each Strength theme in your Top Five which takes into account the weight and order of your entire (Full 34) Theme Sequence Report. So, if you were to compare a #1 Input from one Theme Insight Report to another #1 Input from another Theme Insight Report, they would read differently, because the other Strengths that come after that #1 Input would all be different. These are unique to you.

**Theme Sequence Report**: _n_. The Full 34 Strengths in order. 

Please copy these terms and save them somewhere that you'll easily be able to access them. it will be important to have a quick reference guide when we're going through the lessons at first. Especially as we get to know these terms.
