---
created: 2022-09-12T17:03:45 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419616
author: 
---

# Main Framework - Class Framework - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> The framework of this class follows a system that Gallup uses to help fully understand the Stregnthsfinder model. It's called "Name It - Claim It - Aim It."

---
The framework of this class follows a system that Gallup uses to help fully understand the Stregnthsfinder model. It's called "Name It - Claim It - Aim It."

Because Strengthsfinder is, primarily, a language to understand a concept, we have to first learn the language. This is the "Name It" section. This is where you will receive materials about your Top Strengths and learn the language. Learn what each Strengths means. Learn how to identify it.

The "Claim It" phase is where you own your own Strengths. This will primarily happen when we do your one-on-one. We'll talk about how a particular Strength works for you, and how it manifests. Also, if there are Strengths that don't resonate, or you don't understand, it'll be important for us to cover that, as well. 

In the "Aim It" phase, we'll start talking about development. For some of you, you'll have a little "Aim It" even in your first one-on-one, because we've already covered Name It and Claim It in past WBF one-on-ones. So you might be into development phases rather quickly. 

The intention, for me, is to hit the "Aim It" in every one-on-one, regardless of whether you've had previous classes with me or not, and I'll often take a little extra time if I need to, just to get where we need to go. But we're only going to be picking one or two things to really hit hard in focused work, so again, a little reminder: don't change all the things. Focused development brings the most consistent, long-term rewards!
