---
created: 2022-09-12T17:07:03 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419624
author: 
---

# What To Do With Your Other Strengths - The Rest of Your Strengths - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> Primarily, I want you to think about trying to "understand" the ones you need to understand, and leaving the rest alone for awhile. Additionally, there will be Strengths in the 6-34 that you can "grab for" pretty often (in the top of those numbers) so I want you to have some sense of what they sound like. But as far as using them in your writing, or your writing business, you have stronger tools in your Top Five that you should be developing.

---
Primarily, I want you to think about trying to "understand" the ones you need to understand, and leaving the rest alone for awhile. Additionally, there will be Strengths in the 6-34 that you can "grab for" pretty often (in the top of those numbers) so I want you to have some sense of what they sound like. But as far as using them in your writing, or your writing business, you have **stronger tools** in your Top Five that you should be developing.

This isn't an "any talent of any kind will do" kind of class.

It's a Strengths class.

Focus on your Top Five. 

But, I do want you to have access to the information for a couple of important reasons. One is that you will probably have people in your life who have these Strengths and, as much as possible, I try to write these definitions in "the Strengths' language" so you will be able to hear those traits you don't have as Strengths. You need to still see them as Strengths.

Feel free to reach out to me via my assistant with any questions.
