---
created: 2022-09-12T17:10:03 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://app.ruzuku.com/courses/84991/activities/2419630
author: 
---

# Parting Thoughts - Development Plans and Communities - Strengths For Writers (August 2022)

> ## Excerpt
> Strengths development is a life-long process. Some of us have very strong basement behaviors that we really need to target and remove, so our Strengths can be acting in their balconies more often. Please keep your booklets (both your Top Five, and the 34-Strengths booklet) handy and refer back to them. Keep your notes from your one-on-one handy, as well. In fact, if you are a journal or a note-taker, I highly recommend that you start keeping a Strengths Development journal.

---
Strengths development is a life-long process. Some of us have very strong basement behaviors that we really need to target and remove, so our Strengths can be acting in their balconies more often. Please keep your booklets (both your Top Five, and the 34-Strengths booklet) handy and refer back to them. Keep your notes from your one-on-one handy, as well. In fact, if you are a journal or a note-taker, I highly recommend that you start keeping a Strengths Development journal. 

You'll want to track how much you've changed, and how much better you get at your balconies. You'll want to note how your basements start to go away. I can speak from experience--it's a pretty heady process to watch happen, because it can be so overwhelmingly rewarding. Keep reminding yourself of how well you're doing in your development.

But this process is, like anything in my classes, work. It's not a silver bullet. So make sure you take full advantage of this class, and execute development behaviors. Don't just learn the knowledge. Develop it.

I want you to be the best writer you can be. Take action on that today. And every day. Forever.

You always have my email. You have the SFW Facebook group and the online Strengths Forums on the BFA website. Those will be ongoing, and will only grow as more students take SFW. I look forward to seeing you there, and to being a cheerleader for your ongoing development.

Remember. Focus on your top capacity. Get better-faster. You've got this.

❤️SO-SO-SO MUCH LOVE AND BEST WISHES❤️,  
Becca, Terry, Susan, and Elli
