---
created: 2022-09-05T17:25:02 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-2-comprehension-of-the-material
author: 
---

# 3.2 Comprehension of the Material: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.2 Comprehension of the Material

Every text, regardless of subject, density, or intended audience, has information (or messages) that the author is attempting to convey. This is true of all texts, from the most complex of scholarly material to the simplest of nursery rhymes.

It is absolutely required that the indexer comprehend the text material -- both to formulate the "information questions" and to answer them. Some indexers maintain that it is possible to index material of an unfamiliar discipline. While it may be possible for a very experienced indexer to come up with some kind of term selection, superior term selection and a superior index will result from complete comprehension of the material.

It is expected that an indexer will have superior reading comprehension skills. But even with the best of skills, outside factors can affect the indexer's ability to ask and answer the information questions. Poorly written or organized text can be a challenge to grasp; that makes it hard to identify the pattern of information and select index entries. Sometimes the style of writing can also affect comprehension. Anyone who has worked on text written in the deconstruction fashion can testify to the frustration of trying to understand and index the material. While good term selection is certainly possible for deconstructed text, it generally requires a special effort on the part of the indexer. And, of course, an indexer who does not have basic understanding of the discipline being discussed will not be able to ask and answer the information questions required for good term selection.
