---
created: 2022-09-05T17:36:35 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-8-identifying-thematic-relationships
author: 
---

# 3.8 Identifying Thematic Relationships: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.8 Identifying Thematic Relationships

Although the "forming a kind" classification scheme is appropriate for database indexing, good back-of-the-book index entries express the _meaning within the context of the text_ rather than being simply a list of classifications_._

Let's consider three sets of thematic relations for "animals."

-   In the context of _environmental issues_, animals might include entries such as: endangered species, poaching, species extinction, and pesticides.

-   In the context of _pet ownership_, animals might include entries like: immunizations, selecting a pet, children, training, and breeding.

-   In the context of _animal rights_, animals might include: animal testing, fur trade, cultural differences, and medical research.

The process of term selection begins with understanding, then identifying the meaning of the subject matter or topics (e.g., animal) in the context of the text message (e.g., environmental issues, pet ownership, animal rights), and finally identifying the thematic relationships between these topics and subtopics. These thematic relationships are then reconstructed as index main headings and subentries.

The above examples also demonstrate why indexers need to be familiar with the subject matter of the text they index. Familiarity with the terminology, including jargon, theories, concepts, and other aspects of a specific discipline and/or subject matter, is invaluable in identifying, even anticipating, both pertinent topics and their thematic relationships in the text. This is the reason many indexers specialize in certain subject areas and may avoid working in others. Not only will expertise in the subject matter ensure accuracy of index terms, it will also affect the ability to work quickly and efficiently. This can be demonstrated by the following rhyme:

Ring around the rosey  
Pocket full of posey  
Ashes, ashes, we all fall down

Now to many, the above verse is simply a rhyme chanted by children during a circle game. However, some historians believe that this rhyme is a response to the Black Death, the devastating plague that swept across Europe during the mid-fourteenth century. Obviously this information would affect how the indexer presents or does not present this rhyme in the index. This kind of familiarity with the subject matter facilitates the indexing process and is why indexers tend to specialize in specific areas.

It is evident, from the findings of the Lin and Murphy study, that using thematic relations is an uncommon trait in adults. It is my observation that students with the ability to conceptualize using thematic relations have a distinct advantage in applying term selection, creating main heading/subentries groupings, and in designing the index structure.

That said, it is important to understand that while having the ability to think thematically will more easily enable the indexing process, simply having an _awareness_ of this principle will aid you in writing indexes with a thematically strong structure. Thinking thematically is a skill that can, through awareness, be further developed and improved.
