---
created: 2022-09-05T17:52:49 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/3-dot-9-indexing-exercise-2
author: 
---

# 3.9 Indexing Exercise 2: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 3 activities page

---
[Return to Module 3 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-3 "Module 3")

## 3.9 Indexing Exercise 2

### Identifying Main Headings and Subheadings to Create an Index

Using CINDEX, MACREX, and SKY, write an index for each of the three nursery rhymes listed below. Use CINDEX to index _Little Miss Muffet_, MACREX to index _Baa Baa Black Sheep_, and SKY to index _Tea with the Queen_. Assume that the number following each line represents a chapter of text, or if it is easier for you, imagine that each line represents a page. Use whichever approach works best for you. Try to use your imagination regarding the information that might be found in each "chapter," and incorporate it into your index.

Remember that this exercise will only be graded on the basis of completion and not content, so don't be afraid to have a little fun with your indexes. For example, if one of the rhymes was "Jack Sprat" (who could eat no fat), you might have some entries about eating disorders and/or diets or nutrition.

The instructions for this exercise are as follows:

-   Indexes are to be word-by-word.

-   _See also_ cross-references follow the last subheading.

-   Only use two levels of headings: main headings and subheadings. (Do not use sub-subheadings during this exercise.)

-   Use the indented format for indexes.

-   Capitalize main headings only if they are proper nouns.

-   Remember that function words are ignored in the sorting of main headings and subheadings.

-   Submit two files for _each_ index: one from the indexing program (CDX, MBK, SK7) and one .rtf file.

-   Name the files according to the file labels listed next to each nursery rhyme below.

-   You will be turning in six separate files. Be sure to name each .rtf file by indicating the software used, your name, and the course number, like so: "your name X477 CINDEX exercise2.rtf". Then attach the six files to your assignment submission.

Format is as follows:

main heading  
   subheading  
   _See also_ cross reference

main heading. _See_ cross reference

### The Nursery Rhymes

#### _Little Miss Muffet_

File label: Muffet (Use this name for both files; the file extension will serve as adequate identification.)

Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet, 1  
Eating her curds and whey. 2  
Along came a spider, 3  
Who sat down beside her, 4  
And frightened Miss Muffet away. 5

#### _Baa Baa Black Sheep_

File label: Sheep

Baa, baa, black sheep, 1  
Have you any wool? 2  
Yes sir, yes sir, 3  
Three bags full. 4  
One for the master, 5  
And one for the dame, 6  
And one for the little boy, 7  
Who lives down the lane. 8

####   
_Tea with the Queen_

File label: Teatime

(This one is longer than the others and may be more of a challenge, but it will be good practice -- remember to have some fun with it!)

Teddy bear, teddy bear, 1  
Where have you been? 2  
I've been up to London to visit the queen! 3

I went to her palace, 4  
And knocked at the gate, 5  
And one of her soldiers said, please would I wait? 6

Then one of her footmen, 7  
All dressed in red, 8  
Led me inside, saying, step this way Ted! 9

And there in a huge room, 10  
High on her throne, 11  
Sat the poor queen, taking tea all alone, 12

She said, how delightful, 13  
Sit down, fill your tum! 14  
And soon we were chattering just like old chums! 15

And when time came to leave, 16  
She shook hands and then, 17  
She said, come back soon, we must do it again! 18

[Submit Exercise 2 here](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/assignments/26460018 "Indexing Exercise 2")
