---
created: 2022-09-30T14:42:14 (UTC -07:00)
tags: []
source: https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/9-dot-10-paragraph-id-locators
author: 
---

# 9.10 Paragraph ID Locators: JOURNX477-032 Indexing: Theory and Application

> ## Excerpt
> Return to Module 9 activities page

---
[Return to Module 9 activities page](https://onlinelearning.berkeley.edu/courses/1939224/pages/module-9 "Module 9")

## 9.10 Paragraph ID Locators, An Alternative to Embedded Indexing

The recent trend toward using paragraph IDs (introduced in Module 1.6) as index locators has some interesting implications for indexers.

Currently, embedded indexing requires additional time and effort to accomplish and, as a result, indexers make less money on embedded indexing projects compared to conventional BOB (back-of-the-back) indexing projects. This reality leaves many indexers reluctant to accept embedded indexing projects.

However, the use of paragraph ID locators may prove to be the solution to the problem of additional time and effort associated with embedded indexing.

Embedded indexes allow for the reflow of pages without requiring that the index be painstakingly repaginated to match the new pagination of the document. This is a tremendous advantage over BOB indexes which are static and cannot accommodate a page reflow without additional measures.

Paragraph ID locators function as the equivalent of the embedded “markers” coded into the text and allow for a page reflow without compromising the accuracy of the index. Best of all, paragraph ID locators provide this advantage without using either add-on programs or the increased time and effort required by embedded indexes.

The majority of publishers continue to use page reference index locators, however, there are a few publishers who have adopted the use of paragraph IDs as index locators. Oxford University Press is one such publisher now using paragraph IDs as locators. The _OUP Indexing Guide for Authors_ includes instructions on how to use paragraph IDs instead of page references in the index and may be reviewed here \[\[\[ insert link to the .pdf\]\]\]

I (Sylvia Coates) have been using paragraph ID locators for two different publishers and I can confirm that they require very little adjustment, time, or effort to insert into the indexing process. Only time will tell how the paragraph ID locators practice evolves and how much of an impact this practice will have on the work done by indexers.
